Starting a deposition session        1
Experimental methods        4
File Formats        5
File Upload        6
Chemical Components (ligands)        7
Sequence Information        8
Funding agency information        10
Assembly information        10
Official validation report        11
Finishing a Deposition Session        11
Replacing Data        12
Communication        13
Deposition and Release Policies        14
Electron Microscopy        14
NMR        14
Starting a deposition session
How to start or access a deposition session using ORCiD?
Depositors are encouraged to use their ORCiD credentials to log in to the OneDep system to start a new deposition or access existing ones. First-time contact authors must verify their email address before creating a new deposition. This email does not need to match the one linked to their ORCiD account and can be updated later.
After logging in with ORCiD, OneDep will display a summary table listing all entries where that ORCiD is associated with the contact author. From this table, users can directly access each deposition interface without re-entering a deposition ID or password.
The option of ‘Start a new deposition’ is provided beneath the summary table of existing sessions. You will be asked to select your country or region from a dropdown menu, after which you will be redirected to the relevant wwPDB member deposition site based on your location. Follow the instructions on that page to create your new deposition. Once completed, a notification containing your deposition ID and a randomly generated password will be sent to your verified email. The new entry will then appear in your summary table for easy access. A detailed step-by-step tutorial can be found at https://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/tutorial.
Please note that adding a contact author ORCiD in the “Admin > Contact information” in your deposition session will grant this author access to the current deposition, so please check carefully when adding additional contact authorsʼ ORCiDs.
Alternatively the depositor can still access the session using the deposition ID and the password.


I see that an ORCiD is required for deposition, but I don’t have one. What should I do?
As previously announced, an ORCiD is mandatory for deposition. If you don’t have one, you can easily register for free at https://orcid.org/. The process takes only a few minutes.
Please obtain your ORCiD before completing your deposition. It is required for all contact authors - the individuals responsible for receiving communications, reviewing reports, and confirming any necessary changes.
While ORCiD are not required for all structure authors, providing them is encouraged. ORCID helps distinguish between individuals with similar names and is increasingly requested by journals during manuscript submission.


Can I deposit raw data to the PDB?
To enhance transparency and reproducibility, depositors are strongly encouraged to deposit their raw data in a curated archive, and then provide the corresponding DOI in the “Related Entries” section of the wwPDB OneDep system during deposition.
Here are some recommended archives for various data types:
* X-ray diffraction
   * ProteinDiffraction.org - https://proteindiffraction.org
   * SBGrid - https://sbgrid.org
   * CXIDB - http://www.cxidb.org
   * XRDa - https://xrda.pdbj.org
* Electron microscopy
   * EMPIAR - https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe/emdb/empiar/deposition
* NMR e.g., FIDs, in particular those relating to NOESY type spectra
   * Please contact BMRB - help@bmrb.io.


How do I provide raw image DOI to the PDB after deposited to one of the raw image resources?
Go to the "Related entries" page at OneDep interface, in the "Related experimental data sets" section, choose "diffraction image data" as the type of experimental data, and provide image DOI under "DOI for related data set".


What information and files should I have on hand to deposit a structure?
To deposit a structure, you will need detailed information about the proteins and nucleic acids involved, including:
* Source organism

* Preparation method (e.g., naturally purified, recombinantly expressed, or chemically synthesized)

* Experimental sequence, including expression tags, engineered mutations, and unobserved/disordered regions. Be sure to exclude any segments that were cleaved off before or during the experiment.

If ligands and/or non-standard polymer components are present, please get the chemical identity information ready, in one of the following formats: SMILES string, 2D image, molecular definition file, or alternative CCD ID if they are already present in the PDB archive.
Additionally, gather the log files generated by the software used for data processing, scaling, and refinement, etc.. If possible, use pdb_extract or a similar tool to include this information in your uploaded model file.
The email address, country affiliation and ORCiD of all contact authors are also mandatory, please gather prior to the deposition.




What is the easiest way to deposit many related entries?


There are two main strategies for depositing multiple related entries:
1. Use the "Based on a previous wwPDB deposition" option in OneDep:
 If the entries share only administrative information, such as contact details, entry title and authorship, citation, or grant information, you can reuse this data from an earlier deposition.
   * First, complete or partially complete a deposition and ensure all relevant administrative fields are filled.
   * Then, when starting a new deposition for a related entry, go to the File Upload page.
   * Before uploading any coordinate or experimental data, under the "Based on a previous wwPDB deposition" option, enter the Deposition ID (D_xxxxxxxxxx) and password of the original submission. Select the categories of data you'd like to copy over.
   * Choose the model and data files to be deposited, then click the ‘Continue deposition’ button. 
Important: Once files are uploaded and the “Continue deposition” button is pressed, this option becomes unavailable. If that happens, you must start a new session to import data from a previous submission.

2. Use a common metadata template file:
 If the entries share broader metadata—such as data collection parameters, protein names, source organisms, or sequence information—you can streamline deposition by preparing a shared metadata template using pdb_extract.
      * This template can be embedded in each model file, allowing the OneDep system to automatically parse and populate shared fields.

      * This approach eliminates the need to enter metadata manually for each deposition.

      * The template file can be saved, modified, and reused for future related entries.
For detailed instructions, visit the pdb_extract Help page.


I have many structures of the same protein complexed with different ligands. Can I deposit related entries as a group?
Yes, you can use the RCSB PDB Group Deposition system, which allows depositors to submit multiple related structures together in a single compressed file containing all models and associated data sets. Upon submission, a Group ID will be assigned, along with a unique PDB ID for each individual structure.
A few important guidelines:
         * The Group Deposition system requires files in mmCIF format.

         * All entries in the group must have the same list of entry authors and follow the same release policy.

If you think your structures are suitable for group deposition, please provide a brief description of the data you wish to submit. We will review it and, if appropriate, send you detailed instructions on how to proceed.






Why can’t I log into my deposition session?
There could be a few reasons:
            1. Deposition ID vs. PDB ID – Make sure you're using your Deposition ID (which starts with D_...), not the PDB ID that may have been assigned later.

            2. Incorrect password – You may be entering the wrong password. If you’ve forgotten it, click the “Forgot Password” link on the deposition login page to retrieve the password.


I forgot my password. How can I retrieve it?
To retrieve your password, click the "Forgot Password" link located in the "Existing OneDep Deposition" section on the deposition page. You’ll be prompted to enter your Deposition ID and email address. Once submitted, your password will be sent to the email address associated with the deposition.
For security reasons, passwords are only sent to email addresses listed in the Contact Information at the time of deposition. Please ensure you enter the exact email address used—email aliases or variations will not be recognized.
Alternatively, contact authors can always access their deposition sessions by signing in with their ORCiD iD, without needing the session-specific password.




I didn’t receive an email with my password. What could be the reason?
There are several possible reasons why you didn’t receive the password email:
               1. Incorrect email address or Deposition ID – Double-check that both were entered correctly, without typos.

               2. Email not associated with the deposition – Passwords are only sent to email addresses listed in the Contact Information of the original deposition. If your email was not included, the system will not send the password.

               3. Email filtered to spam or junk – Check your spam or junk folder. Deposition-related emails are sent from noreply@mail.wwpdb.org


I don’t want to share my personal password with other contact authors. Can I reset or change my password? 
Currently, deposition session passwords cannot be reset or changed. We understand that this is not ideal from a security perspective. To avoid sharing your personal password, we recommend starting the deposition session using ORCiD login. When using ORCiD, the system automatically generates a random session password, allowing secure access without exposing your personal credentials.


How do I add an author to an entry or citation author list?
To add an author, click the “+” button next to the name where you'd like to insert the new author. A blank form will appear for entering the new author's name and ORCiD.
To reorder authors, use the up/down arrow icons. To remove an author, click the trashcan icon next to their name.




How long will my deposition session be saved?
Unsubmitted deposition sessions will be retained for 3 months from the date of your last login. After this period, the session and all uploaded files will be automatically deleted.  The depositor will not be able to log into a deleted session.


Where can I designate my deposition for a structure prediction competition?
On the "Release Status" page, set the “Prediction Target” option to "Y" to designate your deposition as a prediction target. Then, select the appropriate prediction initiative (e.g., CASP) under "Development Method."
Choose this option if your structure has less than 50% sequence identity to known structures or if you believe it may be of particular interest for structure prediction efforts.


What is the best way to obtain consecutive PDB accession numbers?
The wwPDB does not reserve or preassign sets of PDB IDs for related depositions. PDB IDs are issued automatically based on the timestamp of when each deposition is submitted.
If you would like to try obtaining a set of consecutive PDB IDs, you can improve your chances by:
                  1. Completing all required fields for each deposition in advance, stopping just before clicking the Submit button.

                  2. Submitting the sessions one after another, in quick succession.

                  3. Choosing a low-traffic time, such as late at night or during off-peak hours.

Please note that even with these steps, consecutive PDB ID assignment is not guaranteed.
Also, the deposition system does not support multiple simultaneous sessions. You must log out of one session before starting another to avoid issues.


.


How do I provide information for a re-refined structure that uses the same experimental data as an existing PDB entry?
If you are depositing an alternative interpretation of a structure based on the original experimental data (e.g., structure factors) from an existing PDB entry—whether from your own lab or another research group—you must:
                     * Provide the PDB ID of the original entry that the experimental data came from.

                     * Select "re-refinement" as the Content Type during deposition.

If the original data was generated by a different research group, please review the additional requirements for third-party data reuse at: wwPDB deposition procedures – Section 15.


Experimental methods
How do I submit hybrid method structures?
At the start of deposition, you will be asked to provide information about the experimental methods employed to determine the structure. Multiple experimental methods may be selected. For example, select both X-ray diffraction and neutron diffraction if the X-ray/neutron hybrid method was used. 
All relevant accession codes will be assigned when the deposition is submitted. For example, a structure determined using a combination of X-ray diffraction and solution NMR will be assigned both PDB accession codes and BMRB accession codes upon submission.
As a deposition session proceeds, depositors will be asked to provide experimental details such as data collection and refinement information for each experimental method.
If an experimental method was used that is not on the list (e.g., cross-linking, small angle x-ray scattering), then please instead go to https://data.pdb-ihm.org/ to submit the data. This portal allows for submission of structures based on multiple methods (at least one being experimental) but which could not have been solved using one technique alone.
How do I submit my computational model?
Structures that are purely derived from computational methods (i.e., theoretical models) may not be deposited in the PDB.  You may want to deposit your model at Model Archive (https://www.modelarchive.org).
I can't find a software name in the pull-down list for data processing. How do I add information about software used for data processing?
Use the Communication page to submit the missing information. An annotator will instruct you how to proceed with your deposition and will add the software information to the list during entry processing.
File Formats
How to prepare a mmCIF format file for deposition? (*carried over from internal triage document)
Information on outputting and preparing PDBx/mmCIF format files for deposition can be found here:
https://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/preparing-pdbx-mmcif-files


It is recommended that you use the mmCIF file that is output by your refinement software to make the deposition. The most popular refinement packages do provide output coordinate files in mmCIF format.  For users of other structure determination/refinement software packages, the wwPDB provides stand-alone and web-based tools to convert legacy PDB format files into PDBx/mmCIF format:


https://pdb-extract.wwpdb.org/


How do I collect the data from the refinement program log file necessary to generate a complete PDBx/mmCIF format file?
pdb_extract can be used to harvest data from your fully refined coordinate file, experimental data file (e.g., structure factor file), log files from certain reflection data process and refinement programs, and author information template file (if available). pdb_extract can produce fully populated coordinate and experimental data files in PDBx/mmCIF format that can then be used for validation or deposition. Programs like Phenix and Refmac also have the option of generating mmCIF format file with refinement statistics incorporated. 
How do I convert a PDB format file into PDBx/mmCIF format file?
If you want to convert your PDB format file to PDBx format prior to deposition, you may use pdb_extract to convert and prepare the files for deposition.
For 3DEM and NMR depositions, files uploaded in PDB format will be automatically converted to PDBx/mmCIF format. The uploaded PDB and converted PDBx/mmCIF format files will be available via the "Download files" link at the bottom of the left hand panel.
What is a proper PDB format file for upload?
Currently PDB format file can be uploaded for 3DEM and NMR structures. The file must satisfy the format guide described at  http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/file-format-content/format33/v3.3.html
Please make sure that an uploaded PDB format file meets the following requirements:
a) There must be a complete TER record after the end of each polymeric chain
Example:
        
ATOM   2705  CB  HIS A 337      -2.421  -9.493  35.428  1.00 30.90           C
TER
ATOM   2707  N   ALA B   3      14.064   2.135  20.580  1.00 15.71           N
        
b) All the ligands/compounds present in your PDB coordinate file must have a HETATM at the start of the atom coordinate line
HETATM 1574  C1  GOL A 104      -1.268 -20.812  15.070  0.75 21.78           C
        


How do I convert my structure factor file to mmCIF format?
SF-tool can be used to convert your structure factor file to mmCIF format.
You can also perform programmatic conversion through the sf_convert program, as described here: https://pypi.org/project/sf-convert/2.1.13/


Can I submit an entry that has more than 99,999 ATOM lines and/or more than 62 chains (and is therefore incompatible with the PDB format)?
Large entries (>99,999 atoms and/or >62 chains) should be deposited in the PDBx/mmCIF format. A PDBx/mmCIF preparation guide is available.
For large structures generated using exact symmetry operations (e.g., strict helical, point, or non-crystallographic symmetry (NCS)), authors should deposit only those chains that were fitted and/or refined and supply a PDB file containing the operators (matrix transformations) that can be used to generate the complete assembly.
Why do the chain ID and residue numbers in the validation report differ from the input PDB file? (*carried over from internal triage document)
As per the wwPDB annotation policy http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/procedure#toc_4 each polymer is assigned a unique chain ID. Chain IDs for all bound moieties and waters are assigned based on their proximity (number of contacts) to the nearest polymer.  You can proceed with using your coordinate file for your deposition. You do not need to change any chain ID or residue number for the deposition.  These will be updated during the annotation process.


File Upload
How do I upload files for deposition? Which files are required for deposition?
Go to the "File upload" page within the deposition interface. Select one coordinate file using the "Browse" button and select the appropriate file type, i.e., PDBx/mmCIF format or (for 3DEM and NMR only) legacy PDB format.
On the “File upload” page, select experimental data file(s) using the  "Browse" button and choose the appropriate file type, e.g.,PDBx/ mmCIF format or MTZ for structure factors.
Follow the instructions provided on the ”File upload” page to determine which file types are required for your deposition. Press the "Continue deposition" button at the bottom of the “File upload” page to proceed with the deposition.
Depositions of structures determined using X-ray crystallography or electron crystallography require one coordinate file and one structure factor file.
Depositions of structures determined using NMR require one coordinate file, one chemical shift file, and at least one restraint file. Depositors of NMR structures  are also encouraged to upload a peak list file.
Single particle, helical, and subtomogram average 3DEM depositions require one primary map file, two raw, unfiltered, unmasked, unsharpened half map files, a non-copyrighted map image file, and (if a model is being deposited) a coordinate file.  Depositors are also encouraged to upload an FSC curve XML file, mask map files, and layer line data.
Tomography 3DEM depositions require one primary map file and a non-copyrighted map image file. Depositors are also encouraged to upload mask map files.
Depositions of 3DEM models derived from previously deposited 3DEM maps require one coordinate file and the EMDB ID of the associated 3DEM map.
Deposition of a composite map does not require associated half maps, but does require that the depositor provide the EMDB IDs of the associated consensus map and focused refinement maps, which must be deposited separately. Please consult https://www.ebi.ac.uk/emdb/pages/documentation/deposition/composite_map for more complete guidance on composite maps and composite map deposition.[a]
There were problems with the file I uploaded. Where can I see a list of those problems?
Errors encountered during file upload will be presented in two places: (1) on the diagnostic screen (headed by a graphic showing a pair of red gears) that appears after the "Continue deposition" button on the “File upload” page is clicked, and (2) on the “Upload summary” page of the deposition interface.
Why did my file upload fail?
Reasons for a file upload failure may include:
                        * The uploaded file has the incorrect file type selected.  It is important that the correct file type be selected for each file being uploaded. 
                        * The uploaded file has Incorrect file format.  Common format errors include missing TER cards in legacy PDB format files and data items in PDBx/mmCIF format files that do not conform to standard formatting and/or definitions (http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/file-format).
                        * An uploaded coordinate file has different polymer chain IDs or a different number of polymer chains from a previously uploaded coordinate file. The solution to this is to upload the new coordinate file a second time.  This time, after you have selected the new file and de-selected the old file from the file list, a new option should appear at the bottom of the Re-upload files page.  This new option will include a button that you can push to reset the deposition interface and incorporate the new coordinate file (and please note that you may need to manually re-input some information following the reset).[b]
If a file upload has failed, it will be  necessary to review the error messages on the "File upload" or “Upload summary” page, correct the file accordingly, and then upload the file on the "File upload" page again.
Chemical Components (ligands)
How do I provide information for a new chemical component (ligand)?
The deposition interface searches the Chemical Component Dictionary (CCD) for matches between submitted ligands and the contents of the dictionary. Summary information will be displayed for any chemical components (ligands) detected in the uploaded file. Authors should review this information and note any missing data.
If no CCD match is available, authors must provide complete chemical information by 1) uploading or sketching a 2D chemical drawing using the deposition tool, or 2) providing the appropriate SMILES string or InChI, or 3) providing a ligand ID existing in the CCD that should be the match but is not presented as a hit due to geometry ambiguities or other reasons.
Authors are also encouraged to include in the model coordinates the ligand restraints used for refinement. 
Where can I upload a ligand image or ligand definition file prior to or after submission?
Prior to submission, the ligand verification page will display the message "Address mismatched instances of" for ligands without matches in the CCD. After confirming the ligand type, please provide a ligand image and/or a ligand definition file. 
If you need to provide a ligand image or definition file after an entry has been submitted for annotation, you can request that the session is unlocked using the Communication page. Once the session has been unlocked, the procedure will be the same as that of prior to submission.
I already provided mandatory ligand information, but the interface still indicates that a ligand mismatch requires attention. What should I do?
Return to the instance-level verification page (click the "Inspect Selected Ligands" button on the ligand summary page) and make sure that the "Save" button near the bottom of the page has been clicked. When this button is clicked, it should change from a "Save" button to an "Undo" button and all mismatched instances of the ligand should switch from a yellow header to a light blue header that reads "Mismatch(es) now addressed." Make sure that all the ligands that require attention have been addressed by visiting all of the available tabs (one ligand type per tab). You will need to press the "Finish (all issues addressed)" button after you have pressed the "Save" button for each tab. If there are any additional problems, please use the Communication page to contact the wwPDB annotation staff for assistance.
Ligand shown at DepUI does not match ligand from structure (*carried over from internal triage document) 


If you provide an image of the ligand or a SMILES string with your deposition, we will make sure that the ligand is correctly added to our chemical component dictionary during processing. 


Ligand browser shows MSE without hydroxyl group (*carried over from internal triage document)


Please ignore the warning. Since MSE is present in the protein sequence, the OXT is leaving to form a peptide bond (thus missing hydroxyl group). By design, the Ligand tool at the Deposition interface will issue a warning unless an exact match is found. It does not mean the ligand or modified residue is wrong or not recognized. It is designed to draw the depositor's attention to verify and confirm the chemical entity.
Sequence Information
How do I provide a polymer sequence containing non-standard or modified residues?
When providing a protein or nucleic acid sequence, depositors should provide the full sequence that was present in the experimental sample. This sequence should contain any expression tags or other unobserved regions that were not modeled in the final coordinate file.
For polypeptide chains containing standard amino acids, please provide the sample sequence using one-letter codes for all standard amino acid residues present in the polymer chain (e.g., Y for tyrosine).
Similarly, for nucleic acid chains, provide the one letter codes for standard nucleotides present in the RNA chain (e.g., U for uracil), and two letter codes[c] for standard nucleotides present in the DNA chain (e.g., (DA) [d]for 2'-DEOXYADENOSINE-5'-MONOPHOSPHATE) . Please refer to the list of standard amino acid and nucleic acid one-letter/two-letter codes.
If the polymer chain contains non-standard amino acids or nucleotides, please provide the three-letter code of the residue as it appears in your coordinate file in parentheses. For instance, use "(MSE)" in the sample sequence if it contains selenomethionine.
Example of a sample sequence containing modified residue:
In a protein: VQDKTT(MSE)ELFISEKTV
In a DNA: [e](DC)(DC)(UFP)(DG)(DG)
In a RNA: GCA(OMC)CUCG(2MA)UGU


I have two (or more) copies of the same protein in the coordinates, but the deposition interface displays two (or more) macromolecules. How do I correct the number of unique polymers and/or chain IDs on the Macromolecules pages?
If sample sequences were not provided in the uploaded coordinate file, the deposition system automatically generates unique polymer entities based on sequences extracted directly from the coordinates themselves. As different instances of the same polymer might have different subsets of their sequences modeled, multiple entities might be generated for a single polymer.
To associate these entities (each of which will have a different page under the "Macromolecules" header) so that they can be identified as the same polymer during processing, go to the page for one of the polymer entities, e.g., "Molecule 1." Provide any information available for the polymer, including molecule type, provenance, and source (and host, if applicable) information. Most importantly, provide the full polymer sequence that was used for the experiment. This sequence should include any expression tags and any residues that were present but may not have been modeled in the coordinates.
Then, on each page under the "Macromolecules" header for a polymer entity that is the same polymer as the one just identified, you can enter the molecule number at the top of the page and click the "Copy every field from Molecule" button to copy all of the entered information from that entity, including the sequence.
During the annotation process, identical polymers identified in this manner will be consolidated from multiple entities into a single entity encompassing multiple chains. No further action on the part of the depositor should be necessary.
An example:
An X-ray crystal structure of lysozyme is deposited. There are two molecules of lysozyme modeled in the asymmetric unit in the coordinates. Because of poor electron density, a loop that is modeled in the first molecule is not modeled in the second molecule. The uploaded coordinate file did not happen to contain the sequence of the experimental lysozyme construct that was crystallized, so the deposition system extracts the sequences from the coordinates. Because of the un-modeled loop in the second molecule, different sequences are extracted for the two molecules and they are identified as different polymer entities, Molecule 1 and Molecule 2, in the Macromolecules section.
On the Molecule 1 page, the depositor provides all of the required information for the polymer including the experimental sequence, which includes not only the problematic loop, but also some N-terminal residues present in the sequence that were not modeled in either instance of the polymer. The depositor then moves to the Molecule 2 page. He or she enters "1" in the box at the top of the page and clicks the "Copy every field from Molecule" button.
The depositor has now done what is necessary. During annotation, Molecule 1 and Molecule 2 will be consolidated into a Molecule 1 that includes both molecules of lysozyme.
Where can I provide details about a polymer or sequence?
Each unique macromolecule in a submission will have its own page under the Macromolecules header in the left-side menu. Any particular details regarding the nature or sequence of the macromolecule that do not fit in any of the other available data fields can be included in the "Compound details" box located under the sequence alignment.
I got a mismatch error during sequence alignment. How do I fix this problem?
To correct a mismatch error in the sequence alignment, it is necessary to determine whether the error is in the provided sequence or in the uploaded coordinate file. If the error is in the sequence, then the corrected sequence can be entered in the appropriate field and the alignment refreshed. If the error is in the uploaded coordinate file, a corrected coordinate file must be uploaded on the Replacement Upload page.  If it is neither of the above, then send a message to the annotation team through the communication module of your OneDep session.




Can I deposit polyAla sequence for my model
There are two slightly differing cases for poly-Ala modeled chains. 
a.               If you know the register of the amino acids and model the backbone for each one in sequence (just the side chains are un-modelled), then these should be submitted with either the correct amino acid names, or as poly-Alanines which we will re-name to the correct amino acid nomenclature. 
b.               If you do not know the register of the amino acid sequence and therefore cannot unambiguously determine the identity of the amino acids, then these regions should instead be modeled as poly-UNK, which is our nomenclature for unknown residues.
I have anti-Kappa VHH domain in my structure and I do not wish to reveal the sequence. Can I deposit the sequence as (UNK)s ?


The anti-kappa VHH sequence is already published in the PDB in PDB entry 7O31.  Furthermore, in the accompanying paper, they cite the patent from which they obtained the sequence, which reports the full sequence of this antibody domain.  Therefore, this sequence is already in the public domain.  As this is the case, we do urge you to provide the actual sequence of the anti-kappa VHH construct that is in your sample, and the model including all of the sidechains that you originally fit to your map.  This would then support the goal of the worldwide Protein Data Bank to promote scientific openness and reproducibility.








Funding agency information
How do I provide funding agency information?
The funding agency information can be provided at the "Grant information" page of the deposition interface. Once you start typing your funding organisation name in the provided box, a list of organisations will appear for you to select from.
What if my funding organisation name is not in the enumeration list?
Select "Other private" or "Other government" from the list, whichever applies, and provide funding details using the Communication page of the deposition interface. The funding organisation name will be added during entry processing.
What if there is no funding organization?
Please enter “Not funded” as the funding organization.


Assembly information
What information do I provide on the "Assembly" page of the deposition interface?
The assembly page is designed to capture the quaternary structure of the molecule or complex as it exists in solution (not necessarily the asymmetric unit). For X-ray structures, for example, quaternary assembly can be (1) the same as the asymmetric unit, (2) a portion of the asymmetric unit or (3) larger than the asymmetric unit such that symmetry needs to be applied to the content of the asymmetric unit to generate the complete assembly.
On the Assembly page of the deposition interface, the "Assembly details" box can be used to include a brief description of the assembly. If there is experimental evidence that supports this assignment, then it can be provided in the "Experimental evidence for the assembly" section. The experimental evidence does not need to be your own experiment, it can be from the literature, as long as it shows that there is experimental evidence for this quaternary structure.
And finally a detailed assignment of each chain in the assembly can be provided in the "Chains and matrices for the assembly" section.
If all chains in the asymmetric unit are involved in assembly #1 then select "Y" under "Does this assembly apply to all chains?".
Otherwise, select "N" and provide the relevant chain ids under "List of chain IDs in this assembly". You would do this if the assembly is only a portion of the asymmetric unit.
If there is no additional symmetry needed to generate the assembly then select "Y" under "Can you generate the assembly without applying matrices?" and the unit matrix will be selected automatically. Otherwise, select "N" and provide the necessary symmetry rotation matrix and translation vector under "Provide 3x4 rotation with translation matrices in the format". You need to select “N” and provide at least one matrix if the assembly is larger than the asymmetric unit.
Then select "+" if more assemblies need to be described (i.e., the assembly is only a portion of the asymmetric unit, so there are multiple assemblies in the model).
How do I report helical symmetry?
If you solved your structure by cryo-EM using helical symmetry, once you choose “electron microscopy” as the experimental method, please be sure to select “helical” as the experimental subtype. Then, after you upload your files, on the Reconstruction page, there will be fields in which you may enter the axial symmetry and the helical twist and rise parameters.
Validation server and validation report
The journal requested that I provide a fully annotated validation report, but I only have the "Preliminary Validation Report". How do I get the report?
Prior to the entry annotation only the preliminary validation report is available. This version is produced by the deposition system upon successful file upload. The official confidential validation report will be sent to you after the entry is processed by a member of the wwPDB biocuration team. You will also receive a validation letter which includes any questions that may have arisen during entry processing and the processed data files. The confidential validation report will also be available at the Validation Reports page of the deposition interface (after the entry is processed by a biocurator and the processed files are sent for your review).
Why Chain ID and Residue number in validation report differ from input PDB file


As per the wwPDB annotation policy http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/procedure#toc_4
each polymer is assigned a unique chain ID. Chain IDs for all bound moieties and waters are assigned based on their proximity (number of contacts) to the nearest polymer.


You can proceed with using your coordinate file for your deposition. You do not need to change any chain ID or residue number for the deposition.  These will be updated during the annotation process.


Why can I not continue deposition after the validation server?


The wwPDB Validation Server and OneDep deposition system, although related, are entirely separate. The Validation ID and Validation server cannot be used for data deposition to PDB. Once you are satisfied with your validation report and consider that your structure is ready for deposition to the PDB you will need to start a new deposition session using OneDep deposition system at http://deposit.wwpdb.org. This will create a distinct different deposition ID.
For further details please see
https://www.wwpdb.org/validation/validation-servers.


What xml validation report and what is it for?

The XML file from the validation packages contains a machine readable representation of the data presented in the PDF report. This is for anyone to use. These files are available on the public archive when an entry is released. Coot can download this file from the public repository and point to areas with issues.


What is DCC program and how does it calculate R values?


DCC is an in-house program used by PDB to validate structure factor files. It relies on external refinement packages like Refmac, Phenix, and CNS to calculate R-factors. DCC automatically selects the appropriate refinement package based on the depositor's entry (Refmac or Phenix) and uses the corresponding tool to compute R-factors.
DCC’s Approach:
For REFMAC, DCC iterates through common parameters to select the best option.
Phenix works more automatically, and CNS is the simplest in terms of handling parameters.
There are several challenges:
                        1. Software Version Changes: Different versions of refinement software can yield varying results. For example, REFMAC changed its bulk solvent model in CCP4 7.0, leading to differences in results for the same input files.
                        2. Unknown Parameters: DCC cannot always capture all parameters used by the depositor during refinement since not all of them are recorded by the software. While it tries to capture key items (e.g., bulk solvent correction), it cannot always fully reproduce the depositor's exact setup.
                        3. Structure Factor File Conversion: In cases with complex data (e.g., F/I/I+/I-), it's difficult to know exactly what values the depositor used during refinement. For instance, if a wavelength was provided in the refinement process (especially important for metals), it may not be clear from the structure factor file itself.


How to use wwPDB model validation tools?


There is a stand alone validation server available at: https://validate.wwpdb.org.


If you want to run validation through a programmatic interface, please use our
validation API service.


https://www.wwpdb.org/validation/onedep-validation-web-service-interface


The underlying validation system is a complicated system involving many
3rd-party software packages and licenses, that is not designed to be delivered
to non-PDB local servers.


Finishing a Deposition Session
How will I know when all mandatory data have been submitted?
The progress bar in the upper left-hand corner of the deposition interface tracks mandatory data items. Click on the progress bar at any time to view any missing mandatory data items.
Once all mandatory data items have been provided, the progress bar will become the Submit button.
When a deposition is complete and the Submit button is clicked, PDB/EMDB/BMRB accession code(s) will be issued and the entry will be submitted for wwPDB annotation and processing.
I have already provided complete contact author information for the PI and corresponding author, but the navigation panel still indicates that the data on the page are still incomplete. Why?
By default, the deposition system provides extra blanks for additional contact author information. If there are no additional contact authors, select "N" as the answer to the question "Are there other authors you wish to add?" This will remove the extra blanks and complete the page, providing principal investigator and corresponding author information has been properly filled in.
All of the indicators on the navigation panel are green and the "Submit" button is available, but when I click the "Submit" button, it tells me that I have not clicked on the validation report. Why?
The deposition interface requires that the wwPDB validation report be downloaded before a deposition session can be completed. You are expected to read the validation report and correct any obvious errors before submission. When the report has been generated, you will receive an email notification. You can then return to the Validation Reports page within the deposition interface and click on the link for the PDF validation report. After the report has been downloaded and accepted, you will be permitted to complete the deposition process.
Replacing Data
When can I replace an uploaded file?
An uploaded file can be replaced either pre-submission (before a PDB accession code has been issued for the deposition) or post-submission (after a PDB accession code has been issued and the entry is either being processed or has been processed by the wwPDB biocuration staff). Please note that the files for withdrawn or obsoleted depositions cannot be replaced.
How can I replace an uploaded file pre-submission?
Coordinate files can be replaced at any time prior to submission using the "Re-upload files" page on the left side menu of the deposition interface. Browse the new coordinate file and specify its type (PDB or mmCIF). Be sure to select the new coordinate file within the list, deselect any previously uploaded coordinate files and press the "Process selected files" button at the bottom of the page to initiate the upload and incorporation of the new coordinate file.
The system will ask you to wait while the files are checked and converted. If there are no issues, the system will allow you to continue with your deposition. The validation process will start running after the new file is successfully uploaded. After all deposition requirements are fulfilled, be sure to click the "Submit deposition" button.
If you encounter any error messages, please check the "Upload Summary" page and read the answer to the question "Why did my file upload fail?" in this FAQ if necessary.
You can make the requested corrections and try again. If you have made corrections to a file, you should re-upload it, define its type, and de-select the coordinate file you are replacing before you click the green "Process selected files" button.
If your file upload failed and you would like to return to the previous state of the deposition click the "Undo failed upload" button at the bottom.
My file has no problems yet the deposition system can not proceed with file replacement. What should I do?
In cases when the new files have no errors, but the system cannot process them because of the major changes made (for instance, change to the number of polymer chains or chain ids) a button called "Clear deposition data" at the bottom of the page should be used to reset the entry. Clicking this button will result in the deletion of much of the information associated with your deposition and will require that you re-enter all the deleted information. You should re-upload the coordinate file, select it, define its type, and de-select the coordinate file you are replacing. Click the "Clear deposition data" button. When the system has accepted the new file, you can then proceed to re-enter any metadata that has been deleted in the process.
How can I replace an uploaded file post-submission?
After a submission has been completed, your deposition session (including the "Re-upload files" page) will be locked. Go to the Communication page within the left-hand panel of the deposition interface and send a request to a PDB biocurator to unlock the deposition session. After you have received a message confirming that the session has been unlocked, you will be able to upload the new file following the steps described in How can I replace an uploaded file pre-submission? in this FAQ.
I want to replace only a coordinate file or only the experimental data file. How do I proceed?
If only the coordinate file needs to be replaced, upload the new file at the "Re-upload files" page, deselect the previously selected coordinates file and keep other previously uploaded files selected. Similarly, if only an experimental data file (for example a structure factor file) needs to be replaced, upload the new file at the "Re-upload files" page, deselect the previously selected experimental data file and keep other previously uploaded files selected.
Can I replace the coordinates for my previously released entry and keep the original PDB ID, how to proceed?
Yes, the authors (PIs) of released PDB structures can update the model coordinates while retaining the same PDB accession code, thereby preserving the link with the original publication. For entries deposited via OneDep, depositors should log into the corresponding session at deposit.wwpdb.org and submit the request via the OneDep communication panel. For entries deposited via legacy systems, requests should be initiated by sending an email to deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org and including the PDB code in the subject and body of the email. Once submitted, the revised model will be processed by wwPDB biocurators and the updated version released immediately upon depositor’s approval. Versioning of PDB entries will be limited to changes in the coordinate files, with no changes permitted to the deposited experimental data. To limit the impact on the wwPDB biocuration resources, PDB versioning is currently restricted to one replacement per PDB entry per year, and three entries per Principal Investigator per year.
Communication
How do I get help during deposition or after deposition?
If you have any questions about your deposition, you can log in to your deposition session and use the Communication page available toward the top of the left menu in the deposition interface.  Using the Communication page, you can contact and communicate with wwPDB biocuration staff.
How can I provide general feedback about the deposition system?
We welcome your feedback regarding the Deposition System. If your feedback is about a specific deposition, please use the Communication page within the deposition interface for that specific deposition.  If you have general feedback or do not have an appropriate active deposition session, you can contact wwPDB biocuration staff at deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org and they will help you.
Deposition and Release Policies
The paper has been published, why hasn’t the corresponding structure been released?
The wwPDB supports open science and aims to release structural data immediately upon publication, once a wwPDB Core Archive accession code (PDB, EMDB, or BMRB) is identified in the article. According to wwPDB policy, if an accession ID appears in a preprint or peer-reviewed publication, the associated "On Hold for Publication" entry will be released.
Publication information is gathered through:
                        * Direct communication from authors, journals, or community members (via OneDep or deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org
                        * Automated PubMed searches, which compare the deposition's title and author list to published records, followed by manual verification of wwPDB accession codes

If a structure has not been released despite publication, a common reason is that the final publication title or author list differs from what was provided during deposition. This mismatch may cause automated systems to miss the link, especially if the authors or journal did not notify wwPDB of the publication.
To avoid delays, depositors are encouraged to update citation details promptly and inform the wwPDB once the manuscript is published. The PDB users are also encouraged to contact the wwPDB if they notice that a published article cites PDB entry (entries) but the entry (entries) are not released yet.
For other details, please Visit our PDB release policy here.
Electron Microscopy
Q1: What map formats are accepted by EMDB?


EMDB accepts maps in MRC and CCP4 formats. These are converted to a standard CCP4 format upon redistribution.


Q2: Which cryo-EM maps should be deposited to the wwPDB?


You should deposit maps that were used to answer a biological question or to interpret and validate an atomic model. These maps are essential to support the scientific claims of your work. In addition, we strongly encourage the deposition of maps that may be broadly useful to the community—for example, maps that can serve as valuable benchmarks for the development and improvement of cryo-EM methodologies, even if they were not directly used for model building.


Q3: How do I deposit composite maps to the wwPDB?


Composite maps may be deposited, but they must follow wwPDB policy. You should first deposit the consensus (global refinement) map and any focused maps separately as standard single-particle entries. The composite map should then be deposited together with the corresponding composite atomic model, and the entry should be linked to its source maps using the related entries category. If you need help setting up these links, an annotator can assist you during the deposition process.


Q4: What is the difference between consensus, focused, and composite maps?


A consensus map is the overall map of the structure produced by global refinement. It's the original map prior to performing targeted local refinements.


A focused map is generated by performing targeted refinement, typically to a domain, to improve resolution in a specific region of the structure.


A composite map is created by combining focused maps into a single, stitched-together map that provides the best overall representation of the structure.


Q5: I have fitted coordinates for my map; can I include them with my map entry?


Yes, you can deposit fitted coordinates alongside your EM map. Ensure they are properly described and linked in the deposition.


Q7: I obtained coordinates from PDB and used rigid-body fitting to place them into my map. Can I deposit these coordinates to PDB?


Yes, you can deposit these fitted coordinates to the PDB. Provide accurate species and sequence information during the deposition process.


Q8: My fitted coordinates correspond to a protein homolog. During the PDB deposition, should I provide the species information/sequence information for the EM sample or for the protein homolog?


Provide the species and sequence information for the EM sample, as this reflects the structure determined by cryo-EM.


Q9: How are coordinates derived from EM reconstructions validated?


Validation involves assessing the fit of the atomic model to the EM map, geometry of the model, and other structural parameters. Tools like EMRinger and MolProbity are commonly used.


Q10: Can I update an EM entry after it has been released?


Yes. You can update the atomic coordinates of a released EM entry, and the original PDB ID will be preserved. However, maps cannot be updated once the entry has been released. If a map needs to be corrected or replaced, you must create a new deposition for the revised map. The new deposition will receive a new accession code, and the previous entry can then be marked as obsolete and superseded by the updated entry.


Q11: How do I link my EMPIAR deposition to my EM entry?


During deposition, you will be asked to provide the EMPIAR accession code for your raw data. This code can be included in your wwPDB entry so that users can access both the processed maps/models and the underlying experimental data. If your EMPIAR deposition is still in progress, you can provide the code later, and an annotator will help link it to your wwPDB entry once it becomes available. Linking EMPIAR ensures transparency, reproducibility, and makes your data more valuable to the community.


Q12: Can I upload a model for a map-only entry after deposition?


No. Once a map-only entry has been created, it is not possible to later add a model to that entry. If you wish to deposit a model, you will need to start a new deposition that includes both the map and the model.


Q13: During deposition of a microtubule structure obtained by helical reconstruction, I noticed the field Number of segments used under EM Experiment>Reconstruction>Final Reconstruction. What exactly does this "segment" refer to? Is it the number of protofilaments or something else?


In helical reconstruction, the filamentous structure is divided into segments that are treated similarly to individual particles in single-particle analysis. These segments are extracted from the raw images and aligned during processing to contribute to the final 3D map.


The "Number of Segments Used" refers specifically to the total number of these extracted segments that were included in the final 3D reconstruction after all filtering, classification, and selection steps. It does not correspond to the number of protofilaments.


For example, when you specify that 60 segments were used, it will show up as:


_em_3d_reconstruction.num_particles 60


this means 60 segments were included in reconstruction of the final map.


Q14: Can I upload additional maps? How many and what kind?


Yes. There is no limit on additional maps, and we encourage you to include any that may be useful (e.g., raw, sharpened/unsharpened, or density-modified maps). Be sure to provide map details for future reuse. Note that validation only considers the primary map, model, the first mask, and the first set of half-maps.


Q15: What should I do if the pull-down menu does not contain the correct device, program, or option I need?


If you cannot find the appropriate item in a pull-down menu during deposition, please let us know immediately. We will add the missing option so that your metadata is accurate and complete. Providing the correct information ensures that your entry is properly described and maximally useful to the community.


Q16: Can I deposit multiple models for a single map?


Only a single model file can be uploaded per EM entry. This file may contain multiple models, but validation is performed only on the first model. Be sure to clearly document and explain the presence of multiple models in the file for user reference by using the details text boxes.


Q17: What should be designated as the primary map in a map+model EM deposition?


The primary map should always be the map that was directly used to build the atomic model.


Q18: How much should I model into my EM density map?


You should only model what you can confidently interpret from the map. Include regions where the density is clear and unambiguous. Do not extend or speculate the model beyond what the map supports.


Q19: Why does the Q-score appear low even though the model fits the density well?


Q-scores provide a quantitative assessment of local map–model agreement, but they can be affected by factors such as map sharpening, local resolution variability, or flexible regions. It is possible for a model to visually fit the density well even if Q-scores are lower in certain regions. Depositors should consider Q-scores alongside other validation metrics and visual inspection when assessing model quality.


Q20: Why is there a discrepancy between the reported resolution and the calculated resolution?
Differences between reported and calculated resolution often arise from how maps are masked and processed. Masking can artificially improve the reported global resolution by excluding low-signal regions. Additionally, artifacts present across all particles can correlate strongly and inflate the global resolution estimate, making it appear higher than the level of detail the map truly supports. For this reason, it is essential to inspect maps visually and compare them with other maps at similar reported resolutions to confirm that the observed features are genuinely supported by the data. 
Q21: How do I generate an EMDB-compatible FSC XML file for deposition?


The EMDB requires FSC data in a standardized XML format. Many cryo-EM software packages can export FSC curves directly in this format. If your software only produces text-based FSC data, you may need to convert it using a script or tool. Providing the FSC in XML ensures that resolution and validation information is accurately captured for the deposition.


Q22: What should I select for the “angle assignment type” when submitting a map from CryoSPARC or RELION to the wwPDB?


For both ab-initio reconstruction and refinement, you should select “Maximum likelihood” as the angle assignment type during wwPDB deposition. This is the recommended choice for both processes.


Q23: How can I quickly prepare metadata for composite map depositions?
To streamline deposition of composite maps, you can use the pdb_extract tool to generate common metadata once and reuse it across all related submissions. Start by filling out the EM metadata template, upload your model, and provide sequence information. The tool will generate a model mmCIF and a map-only mmCIF that can be reused for supporting map-only entries. For the composite model deposition, you simply upload the prepared mmCIF file, and it will include the metadata. For the map-only supporting entries, you can upload the map-only mmCIF file, tagging it as metadata using the pull-down menu. Then upon upload most of the depUI should be populated with the info from the uploaded file.
Q24: What is the difference between nominal and calibrated defocus?


Nominal defocus is the target defocus set on the microscope during data collection, based on instrument settings. Calibrated defocus is the actual defocus determined after data collection, typically by processing software, which accounts for variations and imperfections in the microscope or imaging conditions. Calibrated defocus provides a more accurate measure of the electron-optical conditions for each micrograph and is generally used for downstream processing and deposition metadata.
NMR
 General Questions
                           1. What types of NMR data can be deposited in the PDB?  
You can deposit atomic coordinates of NMR-derived structures, restraint files (NOE, RDC, dihedral, etc.), peak lists, and chemical shift data. These are typically submitted to both the PDB and the Biological Magnetic Resonance Bank (BMRB) via the OneDep system.  You’ll need to provide restraint files, chemical shifts, peak lists (optional but recommended), and complete metadata describing your structure and experimental conditions.


Or
You can deposit the following types of NMR-related data to the PDB (and associated databases like BMRB):
                           * Atomic coordinates of the calculated NMR structure (often as an ensemble of models).
                           * Experimental restraints, such as:

                              * NOE-derived distance restraints

                              * Dihedral angle restraints

                              * Residual dipolar couplings (RDCs)

                              * Hydrogen bond restraints

                                 * Chemical shift assignments
                                 * Peak lists
                                 * Experimental details, including sample and sample conditions, software used, experiments, and data collection methods.


                                 2. What is the difference between PDB and BMRB NMR data deposition?
The PDB archives structural data (three-dimensional atomic coordinates), restraint, and chemical shift data.  The BMRB archives NMR experimental data such as chemical shifts, restraints, peak lists, relaxation parameters, coupling constants, and time-domain data. You can learn more about Types of NMR Data Currently Handled at BMRB here: https://bmrb.io/bmrb/data_accepted.shtml
                                 3. Can I deposit NMR data without atomic coordinates?
No, the PDB requires atomic coordinates for deposition. However, associated experimental NMR data such as spectral parameters, relaxation data, kinetic data, and thermodynamic data can be deposited independently to the BMRB using BMRBdep at https://bmrb.io/deposit/  This allows researchers to share valuable experimental data even if a structure hasn’t been determined.
Deposition Requirements
                                 4. What is the process for depositing an NMR structure to the PDB?
The deposition process involves:
                                 1. Accessing OneDep the wwPDB's unified deposition system at https://deposit-2.wwpdb.org/
                                 2. Uploading files, including:
                                 * Atomic coordinates (in mmCIF or PDB format)
                                 * Restraint files (e.g., NOEs, RDCs)
                                 * Chemical shifts 
                                 * Peak lists (optional but encouraged)
                                 3. Providing metadata such as sample preparation details, experimental conditions, software used, etc.
                                 4. Validation: Reviewing the validation report and making corrections if needed.
                                 5. Submitting the deposition, at which point accession codes are issued.


                                 5. What file formats are accepted for NMR structure deposition?
The PDB accepts coordinate files in PDB or mmCIF format. Restraints and chemical shifts can be submitted in NMR-STAR, NEF (NMR Exchange Format), or other commonly used NMR software formats (e.g., CYANA, XPLOR-NIH, CCPN). 
                                 6. What is the required format for chemical shift data?
Chemical shifts should ideally be provided in NMR-STAR or NEF format. Make sure the atom nomenclature matches your coordinate files. BMRB provides tools to help convert chemical shift data before submission here https://bmrb.io/deposit/shifts_example_help.shtml
                                 7. What types of restraints should I include (NOE, RDC, dihedral, etc.)?
You should include all experimental restraints used to determine the structure. This typically includes NOE-derived distance restraints, dihedral angle restraints, residual dipolar couplings (RDCs), and hydrogen bond restraints if applicable.
                                 8. What metadata is required for NMR deposition (e.g., sample conditions, methods)?   What should I include in the experimental details section?
You must provide sample conditions (pH, temperature, solvent), experimental techniques (e.g., NOESY, HSQC), isotope labeling details, and ensemble representation (e.g., number of models, best representative model). Accurate metadata improves the utility and reproducibility of your structure and helps reviewers and future users understand your methodology.  You should include sample information (pH, temperature, buffer, isotope labeling), data collection, chemical shift references, NMR experiments performed, and software used for data processing, assignment, structure calculation, and refinement.
                                 9. How do I describe the ensemble of conformers in my deposition?
Specify the number of models that represent the structural ensemble. Indicate how models were selected (e.g., lowest energy structures). PDB allows multiple models in one file, usually 10–20 conformers for NMR ensembles.
                                 10. Is there a deadline for depositing NMR data related to a publication?
Most journals require deposition prior to or during peer review, and some request a wwPDB validation report as part of the submission process.
                                 * It's best to deposit as soon as your structure is finalized.
                                 * Early deposition ensures that accession codes and validation reports are available in time for journal requirements.
                                 * Some journals will not accept a manuscript for review without a valid PDB deposition.
You can also request a hold on public release of the data until your article is published.


Validation and Restraints
                                 11. How is NMR structure validation handled by the PDB?
After submission, a validation report is generated and must be reviewed before finalizing deposition.The wwPDB NMR validation report begins with an overview of the structure's overall quality and ensemble composition, followed by detailed analyses of residue properties, refinement methods, and model geometry. Key sections include validations of standard geometry, contacts, torsion angles, and non-standard components. The report also covers chemical shift verification, including referencing and completeness, and provides in-depth analyses of NMR restraints, including distance and dihedral-angle violations.  For more information about NMR validation see http://www.wwpdb.org/validation/NMRValidationReportHelp
                                 12. What should I do if my validation report shows poor geometry or restraint violations?
Review the validation report to identify problem areas. You may need to re-refine your structure or correct restraint file issues. Make sure that atom names match between coordinate and restraint files, and that all relevant restraints are included and correctly formatted.

                                 13. Where can I find help interpreting the NMR validation report?
You can find documentation and guidance on interpreting the NMR validation report on the wwPDB validation website http://www.wwpdb.org/validation/NMRValidationReportHelp
Troubleshooting


                                 14. Why am I getting an error when uploading my NMR data files?
Common Reasons for Upload Errors in OneDep
A. Incorrect File Format: OneDep expects NMR data files in specific formats like NMR-STAR, NEF (NMR Exchange Format), AMBER, BIOSYM, CHARMM, CNS, CYANA, DYNAMO/PALES/TALOS, GROMACS, ISD, ROSETTA, SCHRODINGER/ASL, SYBYL, or XPLOR-NIH formats.  If your file is in a proprietary or free-form format, OneDep will reject it.
B. Missing or Inconsistent Atom Naming: Atom names in NMR data files must match exactly with those in your coordinate model.  You will need to standardize the atom/residue names across both files and fix any mismatches including different naming conventions (e.g., HN vs H), or different residue numbering.  This mismatch is a common cause of errors during PDB/BMRB submission via OneDep.
C. Bad Formatting / Syntax Errors: Any manual edits, incorrect line breaks, or bad indentation can corrupt NMR data files.
                                 15. What do I do if the deposition system doesn’t recognize my file format?
                                 1.  Check the File Type: Make sure you're uploading a file in one of the accepted formats for the data type:
Data Type
	Accepted Formats
	Coordinates
	mmCIF (preferred), PDB
	Restraints
	NMR-STAR V3, NMR Exchange Format (NEF), AMBER, BIOSYM, CHARMM, CNS, CYANA, DYNAMO/PALES/TALOS, GROMACS, ISD, ROSETTA, SCHRODINGER/ASL, SYBYL, XPLOR-NIH
	Chemical Shifts
	NMR-STAR V3 or NMR Exchange Format (NEF)
	Peak Lists
	Any plain text format
	                                 2. Check File Encoding:

                                    * Use UTF-8 encoding without special or non-ASCII characters

                                    * Avoid using Windows line endings
                                       3. Validate the File Format Before Upload: You can run your files through the wwPDB Validation Server at https://validate.wwpdb.org





[a]Condensed from internal document content
[b]Adapted from internal document
[c]two letter codes for DNA residues
[d]example of a DNA residue
[e]examples of modified residues in DNA, RNA sequences