Triage Procedure for Biocurators
Introduction
Triage responsibilities
Starting triage duties
Signing off triage duties
Agreed general rules when answering wwPDB deposit-help questions
Monitoring queries through different channels
Through the email
Various mailing lists description
Archiving Email Correspondence to the relevant deposition sessions
Identifying query ownership
Through the OneDep Communication Tool
Enforcing Usage of Communication Tool
Monitoring Deposit-help and Validation mails using RT system
RT messages
Introduction to RT
Triaging RT messages
Handling queries by type
a) Queries about assigned entries
b) Queries about incomplete entries
c) Queries about completed but as yet unassigned entries
d) Queries about legacy entries
e) Queries about validation
f) Other queries
Where to find files for troubleshooting
Path to production entries
Path to temporary folders for files failed upload
Path to Stand alone validation server files
Workflow directory (needs update)
Path to legacy entries
How to determine deposition site based on the session id
How to address common triage issues
Validation fails, has unknown status or taking forever
File upload fails
Ligand analysis fails in DepUI (LigLite) or taking forever
Incorrect sequence alignment
EDS fails in validation or validation fails
MapQ fails in validation
When/how to re-run DepUI workflow
Retrieving passwords
Useful questions and answers
DepUI related
I cannot log into my session
Depositor upset about shared password
Depositor requests to change password
Block in the deposition system
How to update the contact email, so the depositor can request password
Corresponding via the deposition interface
Depositing multiple structures
What is the best way to get PDB accession numbers in a row?
What fields are mandatory in "Collection Statistics" and "Refinement" tabs?
Depositor cannot upload Phenix/Refmac cif file without refinement stats
Refinement packages
What does the "Method to determine assembly" in the "Biological Assembly" tab mean
Ligand shown at DepUI does not match ligand from structure
I have methylated Ser residue. But the CH3 residue is obsolete
Ligand browser shows MSE without hydroxyl group
Bad Data error: Structure contains Residual B values
Chain ID and Residue # in validation report differ from input PDB file
Peptidomimetic ligand -- do I deposit as a ligand or a peptide?
Purging sessions due to long period of inactivity
FTP upload: how to upload maps (>3GB each)
EM MAP only, but selected coordinates also
When depositor asks about depositing polyAla sequence for an EM model
Twinning fraction and LLDF values
Long twinning answer including dictionary items
BMRB EMD Depositions
Funding Organization
OneDep requires only one chemical shift file, how do I combine them?
I see an “ORCID’ number is required for deposition. However, I don’t have this number. How should I proceed?
For entries with Dep ID D_12XXXXXXXX (PDBe) or D_13XXXXXXXX (PDBj)
Related to Annotation and entry processing
Requesting clarification on bound ligand
Requesting descriptive entry title
Microheterogeneity
How to keep secondary structure information when using PDB_Extract?
Software for secondary structure information
When depositors complain about biological assembly annotation
Distant Waters
Sugars missing O1
ANSIOU present, but I never used TLS for refinement
I do NOT have a TLS header, meaning I never refined using TLS
Water on special position
Related to Re-upload/Post-processing/Release
I can only see "preliminary validation report"
Please unlock deposition
I want to change macromolecule name/source/expression system, etc. but the page is locked
Why my entry is not released -- the manuscript has been published
Do you do the automatic match of your PDBs to the publications?
How to get the DepUI to accept coordinates being re-uploaded with different chain labels or a different number of chains?
Delay with manuscript submission & request to extend hold
Withdrawing expired WAIT entry, multiple reminders
Depositing large number of entries -- Group Deposition
Related to various experimental methods
EM
EM entry - do B factors mean anything?
Additional half maps and FSCs
Depositing composite maps
No half maps for subtomogram average maps generated by PEET software.
What "unfiltered, unmasked, unsharpened" means in terms of performing half-map calculations.
2D image data, EMPIAR
Scanning electron microscopy images, BioImage Archive
Asking for consensus maps
How to select contour level
Largest variance slice
NMR
Depositor asks questions regarding BMRB entry (requests the BMRB
Report, requests to release BMRB entry, etc)
OneDep requires a chemical shift file in NMR-STAR 3.1 format.  How do I generate this?
OneDep requires only one chemical shift file, how do I combine them?
What is an "AMBER auxiliary file" for NMR depositions?
NMR hydrogens and Molprobity
Graduate student asks how to improve their NMR validation pdf report
Do you accept NMR structures derived without spatial restraints? This mainly applies to entries calculated by the CS-ROSETTA, HADDOCK, and NMR2 software packages.
Joint Methods
Preparing SF file for joint X-ray and Neutron structure
X-ray, Sf-Tool
Using SF file to calculate the map and open in COOT
Incorrect Free R Test Set
Related to validation process, validation reports, Stand alone validation server
Cannot continue deposition after validation server
Question about Ramachandran angles in the validation report
What xml validation is for?
What is DCC program and how does it calculate R values?
Policy related questions
Theoretical Models or integrative/hybrid model
Can I replace coordinates for a released entry deposited using OneDep?
Depositing old entry without SF File
Rare Questions
How to whitelist an email address
Citing PDB illustrations (for RCSB.org)
Redirecting non-deposition related questions from deposit-help to the help-desk of all partner sites
How to map genomic positions into 3D structures
API for PDB
Hyperlinks to unreleased data
Questions for which we don't have answers. Particularly health questions.
Letter Templates
Impending publication of the primary citation & request to approve release
Encouraging depositors to release COVID-2019 entries
Triage Procedure for Biocurators
Introduction


This document outlines the help-desk triage procedures designed to manage inquiries related to deposition and biocuration.The aim is to establish clear protocols for addressing general questions, inquiries about specific entries, and issues related to ongoing depositions. By following these guidelines, triage annotators can ensure that all queries are handled promptly and accurately, facilitating effective communication with PDB depositors, users and wwPDB partners.


Help-desk questions/inquiries are:


* sent by depositors, users, scientific journals
* coming through emails or Communication within OneDep system
* for entries processed by current or retired annotators
* for entries for the team members or wwPDB partners
* related to released, unreleased or in-progress depositions
* general or entry-specific


Triage responsibilities


The triage annotator duties include
   1. handling entries processed by retired annotators
   2. answering questions about in-progress depositions
   3. handling queries sent to deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org, validation@mail.wwpdb.org, deposit@wwpdb.org, deposit@deposit.rcsb.org
   4. monitoring the legacy OneDep system at https://da-legacy-ann-1.rcsb.rutgers.edu/ for new messages


It is an ultimate responsibility of a triage annotator to make sure all the above queries are handled properly and in a timely manner.
Starting triage duties
Triage annotator is assigned according to the Rotation schedule and is responsible for promptly addressing entry and deposition-related issues.


If you are scheduled to triage the week of a Monday date (e.g., Dec 18), your triaging begins the preceding Friday (Dec 15) at around 5 PM ET when the previous triager signs out. 


You don’t need to check your work email over the weekend, but on Monday morning, you will need to triage any emails received since Friday at 5 PM ET and throughout the weekend.


Signing off triage duties
At the end of each week, typically 5 PM on Friday, the triage annotator must notify the local annotation staff that they are signing off from their triage responsibilities. They should also indicate the next annotator listed in the rotation schedule who will take over these duties. Note that there may be instances when the sign-off occurs before Friday, such as during holidays.
Agreed general rules when answering wwPDB deposit-help questions
* Deposit-help should not be used to advertise a particular partner's website or service (unless the question is about a particular site or service).
   * If the question pertains to rcsb.org features, inform the user that it’s directed to a different help desk and that a representative will respond shortly. CC info@rcsb.org in your response (there's a field for one-time CC in the RT system). Rachel will take over from there, and the RT ticket can be closed (see below section about the RT system).
   * If the message concerns rcsb.org features and it is easy enough for us to respond, go ahead, but still CC info@rcsb.org as mentioned above. Rachel will see your response and will follow up if further communication is needed, but outside the RT system.
   * For messages sent to Rachel about specific entries or deposition process, she will forward them to deposit-help, cc’ing the user. Annotators can either 1) reply directly from the RT ticket page, ensuring the original user’s email is checked, or 2) respond to the RT notification email. While the user’s email won’t be visible in the notification, they will still receive the reply through the RT system.
* Let the local wwPDB site who processed the inquired entry answer.
* The answer should focus on the data files and instructing and educating users on how to interpret them. 
* When instructing users where to download data files via deposit-help, always use the wwPDB website, e.g., https://www.wwpdb.org/pdb?id=pdb_00007ose                                
* For some general questions when you feel providing rcsb.org website features can significantly help depositors/users to understand or find certain data, you can email to this user directly, without going through deposit-help records, or just forward it to Rachel and let her handle responding. 




Monitoring queries through different channels
Through the email
Various mailing lists description


Messages to deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org, validation@mail.wwpdb.org are processed through the RT system and should be handled as described in the relevant section below. These messages are received by all wwPDB partner sites and there is no need to forward them to RCSB partners. Only RCSB-related queries should be handled by the triage annotator.


Messages to deposit@wwpdb.org are used by some journal editors to inform PDB about upcoming publications. They are received by all wwPDB partner sites and there is no need to forward them to RCSB partners. Only RCSB-related queries should be handled by the triage annotator. When responding to such messages choose deposit@wwpdb.org as your ‘FROM’ email address and CC to deposit@wwpdb.org for archiving.


Messages to deposit@deposit.rcsb.org are only received by RCSB and PDBj annotators therefore PDBe partners should be notified if the message is pertaining to their entries or PDBe website. The triage annotator can respond with: “This entry was processed by our colleagues at PDBe. We are copying them on this message and they will respond to you shortly.” and CC to pdbdep@ebi.ac.uk.
Generally there is no need to triage these messages to PDBj as they are monitoring them themselves.  When responding to such messages choose deposit@deposit.rcsb.org as your ‘FROM’ email address and CC to deposit@deposit.rcsb.org for archiving.


Archiving Email Correspondence to the relevant deposition sessions
All email messages either to or from a contact author of an entry whose deposition ID is known must be archived.  To do so, you must forward the email message to

onedep-emh@wwpdb.org

The subject line of the message should contain either the Deposition ID or PDB ID of each entry to which the message pertains.


It is the responsibility of each annotator to archive messages for the entries assigned to them. Triage annotator is only responsible for archiving messages for retired annotators.


Identifying query ownership


The triage annotator must make a good-faith effort to identify each entry relevant to a message, as well as the assigned wwPDB partner and, if possible, the specific annotator. Note that a single message may contain various types of queries. It is the triage annotator's responsibility to ensure that each query is properly forwarded or addressed.


An annotator who is the obvious intended recipient of a message should respond to that message.  An annotator is the obvious recipient of a message if their name is unambiguously present in either the subject line or the opening address, e.g., “Dear  __________”, of the message. If a message does not receive a timely response from its obvious recipient(s), it should be forwarded to the intended recipient(s) by the triage annotator.

An annotator directly unambiguously addressed in the subject line or opening of a message, but not the correct recipient, should forward the message to the appropriate recipient(s) as a triage annotator would. If the right recipient(s) are unclear, forward it to the triage annotator.


Through the OneDep Communication Tool




It is the triage annotator’s responsibility to monitor new messages for in-progress deposition in OneDep system and answer them in a timely manner.


Messages for in-progress depositions in the OneDep messaging system should be monitored via the workflow manager using the “dep” account or by visiting the ‘Unsubmitted w/Messages’ tab in any WFM. Annotators can respond to queries and take necessary actions for the deposition session, such as opening the deposition interface, allowing submission, providing FTP instructions, etc. as shown below:






  

The messages are automatically archived within each deposition session by the OneDep system. 


The triage annotator is responsible for retired annotator entries. New messages for these annotators can be found under the ‘Past Annotators’ tab in the workflow manager or in the ‘All messages’ tab with the corresponding initials. The annotator must monitor the Citation Finder tool for updates and releases, as well as expired entries for retired annotators, taking necessary actions. The list of all annotators is available here: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S1PM/pages/180322350/List+of+all+biocurators


Triage annotator should monitor new messages in the OneDep legacy system at https://da-legacy-ann-1.rcsb.rutgers.edu/ and alert relevant annotators if there are any. 
NOTE: PDBj are using our legacy server for their legacy X-ray and NMR structures. Their EM entries were transferred to their own legacy server. Triage annotator should take care of retired annotators entries if needed.




Messages from the RCSB website help-desk (info@rcsb.rutgers.edu) are sent to the annotators by Rachel using deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org. They can be handled as described in the section about the RT system.



Enforcing Usage of Communication Tool
Depositors should be instructed to send all correspondence for a specific entry through the Communication Tool within that deposition session as soon as possible. This ensures proper cataloging and reduces the triage annotator's workload.

CASE 1.  If you are answering the query, then the deposit-help query is forwarded to the archive and the response is sent via the Communication Tool for the entry.  The following message can also be sent via deposit-help:


Dear Depositor,

Your message has been received.  Please log into your deposition session to view the response.  We ask that you use the Communication Tool within the deposition session for all further communications regarding this entry.
Thank you,
wwPDB Annotation Staff
	


CASE 2.  If you are not answering the query but there is not yet an assigned annotator for the entry, then the deposit-help query is forwarded to the archive and the following response is sent via deposit-help:

Dear Depositor,

We are unable to address your query here.  Please log into your deposition session and send this query via the Communication Tool.

Thank you,
wwPDB Annotation Staff
	

If this message is sent to a depositor, the triage annotator should be sure to follow up and check that the query is eventually sent via the Communication Tool.


Monitoring Deposit-help and Validation mails using RT system
RT messages
Introduction to RT
When OneDep users/depositors use deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org or validation@mail.wwpdb.org, the EBI helpdesk RT system automatically creates a ticket, and RT email message is sent to wwPDB partners.


This is how the RT message looks like:
“From” contains the name of the requester/responder;
“Subject” contains the ticket number and the nature of the request; 
“Body” contains the URL link to the ticket in the RT system, the message from the requester/responder;
“Reply-to” is set to deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org and should not be changed.


 RT-system.png 





RT is a wwPDB account, it is shared by all partner sites, it can be read and answered by any annotator at any of the partner sites.  RT logins (usernames and passwords) have been issued to current RCSB annotators. Contact PDBe for information retrieval or new account setup.


This is how RT docket looks like
 RT-system1.png 



Triaging RT messages
1. Determine if the message needs to be handled by RCSB PDB partner site.
2. Read, and Act on Request: forward or respond to the message
3. Act on Ticket to Resolve (if resolved), Delete (if spam), Assign/Re-assign the owner, etc. 
4. Clean Up and Sign off: Before you sign off triage, check if all RT messages and tickets were acted upon
See details below.


1. Determine  
1. Read message and determine if this is regarding a general issue or related to a specific entry 
2. If regarding a specific entry that has not been deposited, search the entry’s association either by session ID range: D_10002... for RCSB OneDep, D_10014.... for RCSB GroupDep, D_12... for PDBe, and D_13... for PDBj
3.  If regarding a specific entry that has been deposited, use status search to determine the responsible annotator.
4. If it is a general question, no deposition started or assigned, see if you can determine the region (Europe, Asia, or Americas) based on email or address in the  message.  RCSB is responsible for North and South America, New Zealand and Australia. However, if you see that the message from other regions have not been claimed/answered, feel free to remind the Partners.


2. Act on Request
To reply to a message use either email or RT option:
1. Email option: Directly reply to RT message (do not tamper with Reply-to and the Subject line) 
2. RT option: use RT ticket URL link in the RT message or log into RT system, and find the ticket. Click ‘Reply’ in the ticket thread, compose the message, and click ‘Update Ticket’ to send. 


No matter which option was used, the message will be archived under the same ticket thread.


If a message requires discussion among annotators or developers before responding to the user, use the ‘Comment’ functionality. Log into the RT system, edit the recipient list (below the message) to exclude the user and include the relevant annotators or developers. This discussion will be sent only to the selected recipients and archived under the same ticket thread.


3. Act on Ticket
Resolving the Ticket
Once the request is addressed, label the ticket as ‘resolved.’ To do this, log into the RT system, navigate to the ticket page, select ‘Resolve’ from the ‘Actions’ menu in the top right, and click ‘Update ticket.’


Assigning the Owner
The first annotator replying to a message within RT system will be the assignee of the ticket in the RT system, but it can be re-assigned. If you responded via email, the ticket owner will not be assigned.


To assign or reassign a ticket, first get to the ticket page of RT system, click ‘Jumbo’ link on top right of the page, at which point the status page of the ticket will be loaded; then select the person from the ‘owner’ pull-down menu of the ‘modify ticket ######’ field. By clicking ‘Save changes’. 


Deleting Spam
The spam messages can be deleted by selecting the ‘delete’ option from the top right ‘Actions’ pull-down menu of the ticket page. For this operation, there’s no need to click the update ticket button.


4. Clean Up
Searching tickets
The 10 newest unowned tickets appear on the RT system homepage upon login. To search for other tickets, use the ‘search’ -> ‘ticket’ function at the top. For a simple search, enter any keywords, owner, or email address. For an advanced search, select ‘new search’ to specify fields like subject, owner, and status.


The triage annotator must monitor two queues in the RT system: pdb-deposit-help and pdb-validation. Clicking the queue link in the ‘Quick search’ field will display unowned/open tickets, which can be sorted by creation date and other criteria. This allows the annotator to search and update tickets during their triaging duty.


Clean Up and Sign off
Before signing off, check the new/open ticket list to label resolved tickets. If any tickets remain unaddressed, alert wwPDB partners as needed. Assign any unowned tickets with known owners (if you forwarded the message to the responsible annotator and the ticket is still unclaimed). Additionally, search for all your tickets from previous weeks and resolve them.
Handling queries by type
There are several types of queries:

a) Queries about assigned entries


Email messages regarding assigned entries should be forwarded to the relevant annotator(s). If the annotators are at a partner site and it's unclear if they received the message, forward it to the partner organization email. If forwarding is necessary, send separate messages to each partner site involved. Add a header identifying all relevant entries (by deposition ID) and the responsible annotator, if available. For messages within your site (ex, RCSB PDB), send them directly to individual annotators when appropriate.
Each partner site (RCSB, PDBe, PDBj) has a status search tool to identify an entry’s processing site and annotator, which the triage annotator should utilize.

b) Queries about incomplete entries
For queries about incomplete entries, the triage annotator must determine if immediate action is needed or if it can wait until annotation. If the query is received via email, the annotator should encourage the depositor to use the communication page in the deposition session for requests (example messages provided below).


If the query comes through the OneDep system and requires immediate action, the triage annotator should act/respond accordingly. If it’s best resolved during annotation, acknowledge the message and mark it as ‘unread’ for the responsible annotator when the entry is assigned.


In cases where depositors have issues with initial file uploads and can't access the communication page, requests can be handled via deposit-help@mail.wwpdb.org email (RT system).

c) Queries about completed but as yet unassigned entries


For entries with completed depositions that haven’t been assigned to an annotator, the triage annotator must determine if the deposit-help query needs immediate action or can wait until annotation. If the query comes via email, the annotator should encourage the depositor to use the communication page in the deposition session for requests (example messages provided below).


If the message comes through the OneDep system and requires immediate action, the triage annotator should respond accordingly. If it’s best resolved during annotation, the triage annotator should leave the message marked as ‘unread’ for the responsible annotator to see when the entry is assigned.
d) Queries about legacy entries
Queries regarding legacy entries will be identified by triage annotators at individual sites and forwarded to the responsible annotators.  A “legacy” entry is defined as any entry not originally deposited using the OneDep tool. Legacy OneDep system for RCSB PDB can be accessed at: https://da-legacy-ann-1.rcsb.rutgers.edu/

e) Queries about validation
* Simple validation queries should be answered by the triage annotator.
* More complex queries regarding the contents or behavior of the wwPDB Validation Report (PDF) should be forwarded to validation@mail.wwpdb.org
* It is the responsibility of the triage annotator to make sure that other validation queries are reviewed and answered.


Messages to validation@mail.wwpdb.org are also archived in and managed within the RT system of the EBI helpdesk. To reply to a user, the triage annotator should reply to validation@mail.wwpdb.org and keep the ticket number in the subject line.

f) Other queries


Queries regarding the PDB website that are easily answerable should be answered by the triage annotator.  It may be necessary for the triage annotator to inquire to which partner site’s website the query pertains.  Complex questions regarding the RCSB website should be forwarded to info@rcsb.rutgers.edu.  Questions regarding partner websites should be forwarded to partner sites.


There might also be general questions regarding PDB policies, deposition and validation questions, requests for citation updates, questions regarding issues with particular released PDB entries, etc.


Some useful links: 
PDB policies - http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/policy
PDB procedures - http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/procedure
Deposition FAQ - http://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/faq
Validation FAQ - https://www.wwpdb.org/validation/2017/FAQs




Where to find files for troubleshooting[a][b][c][d]


Path to production entries


Deposit directory: /wwpdb_da/da_top/data/deposit
Archive directory: /wwpdb_da/da_top/data/archive 


Path to temporary folders for files failed upload


There are 2 directories:


1. /wwpdb_da/da_top/data/deposit/temp_files/deposition_uploads/


is where files are uploaded to until processed.


2. /wwpdb_da/da_top/data/tempdep/


Tempdep is where the processing happens, it is the sandbox that files are uploaded to and used in the conversion from upload to internal model file first - and then repeated in the deposit directory if all is good.


Path to Stand alone validation server files (East coast servers D_9100XXXXXX)


/wwpdb_da/da_top/data_valsrv


For example:
/wwpdb_da/da_top/data_valsrv/deposit/D_……


Path to Group Deposition  server files (East coast servers D_9100XXXXXX)


/wwpdb_da/da_top/data_depgrp




Workflow directory (needs update)


The workflow directory is where post-deposition tasks are stored for batch calculations during annotation.  During deposition, the results are in the deposit directory.


/wwpdb_da/da_top/data/workflow


Path to legacy entries


/wwpdb_da/da_top/data_legacy/


How to determine deposition site based on the session id


You can find the info at:
https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/wwpdbproject/pages/629211143/OneDep+Accession+Code+Assignments


Note: There is an override file - if sessions have been relocated from one site.  For instance, RCSB has some sessions relocated from PDBj started with D_13


D_8000210000 - 8000215000 RCSB Test server
D_8000240000 - 8000250000 RCSB Beta Server
D_9000000000  - 909999999 PDBe validation server
D_9100000000 - 9101000000 RCSB East coast validation server
D_9101000000 - 9102000000 RCSB West coast validation server
D_1000000001 - 1000199999 RCSB Legacy
D_1000200000 - 1001200000 RCSB Production
D_1001310000 - 1001350000 RCSB entries started on West Coast while we are down - now living on our production server


D_1001400001 - 1001500000 RCSB group depositions
D_1200000001 - 1300000000 PDBe production
D_1300000001 - 1400000000 PDBj production
D_1400000001 - 1500000000 PDBc production (future)


How to address common triage issues
Validation fails, has unknown status or taking forever


Possible reasons


1. Buster uploaded file has non-ASCII characters: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/browse/DAOTHER-9734
2. File upload fails


Possible reasons


1. The files are OK, but they use .gz, zip, xz files all together in the same session. We can only process .gz files.
2. Incorrect file type selected during upload - for example used pdb model file for x-ray structure.
In such cases DepUI will complain about an error but won’t tell what kind of error. 
It can be tracked by looking at the Summary page in the WFM - it lists all the uploaded file names.
The solution here is to start a new deposition session and select a proper file type.
3. File permission error during upload. Not quite clear what the problem is. In some cases upload log indicates partial (incomplete) upload. Network issue on the depositor is suspected. Solution (if nothing seems wrong with the files) - start a new session with the same files. Can suggest using a different browser, computer and network. Might be related to: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/browse/DAOTHER-8157


Ligand analysis fails in DepUI (LigLite) or taking forever


Possible reasons


1. Author uploaded the AIMLESS log file as a refinement parameter file, which stuck the workflow
   1. Solution - author should deselect this file from upload pageant upload the proper files again
2. Time out - for large entries (ribosomes). Allow submit.
3. WF does not start on an entry. (Only developers can verify this). Suggest to re-upload the model again. It should fix the issue.
Incorrect sequence alignment


Happens frequently - just allow submit if nothing is wrong with the sequences themselves.


EDS fails in validation or validation fails


Possible reasons




1. EDS fails id Phenix cif output has duplicate key for _struct_ref_seq category: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/browse/DAOTHER-9744
   1. Solution - remove this category from the uploaded file
2. Validation failed if missing database_2 or poly_seq_scheme (may be related to file re-submission): https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9757
3. EDS failed due to unknown Refmac failure: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9753
4. EDS failed due to NCS matrix without continuation character: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9742
5. EDS failure due to Refmac only outputs a single reflection when there are 2000 input: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9741
6. EDS failed on UNX: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9713
7. EDS failed if SF file does not have a test set: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9703
8. EDS failed on multiple models: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9658
9. I->F conversion not handling sigma correctly: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/issues/DAOTHER-9649
10. Has F+ but no F- data
11. EDS and DCC not running because of the pdbx_database_related error.  When the system sees non-compliant info in pdbx_database_related, it does not run EDS. When EDS does not run, in our current configuration, DCC results are not reported in section 4. So both sections 4 and 6 are missing info in the preliminary validation report.
loop_
_pdbx_database_related.db_name
_pdbx_database_related.details
_pdbx_database_related.db_id
_pdbx_database_related.content_type
? ? ? 'associated SAS data'
? ? ? unspecified
? ? ? unspecified
? ? ? unspecified
12. EDS fails because the SF file did not have audit records: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/browse/DAOTHER-9976
13. EDS used to fail because of a branched entity. Should be addressed.




MapQ fails in validation


Check EM resolution value. If incorrect (say 60A) change it to the correct value and re-run validation.
When/how to re-run DepUI workflow


Retrieving passwords


Useful questions and answers [e]
DepUI related
I cannot log into my session
There are several possibilities.  First, ensure that you are using the deposition id (starting D_….) and not the PDB id that you may have been issued. If you do not remember your password, use the forgot password form on the deposition page.
	EP
	

Depositor upset about shared password
We appreciate your concern, and we are very sorry that the deposition interface has been a source of frustration.


The OneDep system currently associates each deposition session with only a single password, which is shared among all contact authors.  We recognize that this a non-ideal solution from a security standpoint and are currently developing a new system, based on ORCID, that will have better personal identity management.


Currently the OneDep deposition start page provides the following warning:


"On initiation of a deposition session the wwPDB OneDep system will provide the Corresponding Author, the Project PI and additional contact authors, as designated by the Principal Investigator, with a deposition session password."


The password entry blank is also accompanied by text indicating that the password being provided is a shared "group password".


If you have suggestions for improvements to the current text that might improve clarity until such time as we are able to implement a better system, we would be very happy to consider them. 
	BH (added by MRS)
	Depositor requests to change password
We currently have no mechanism for changing the password.






If you are creating a deposition while logged in to ORCiD, then the
authentication of the deposition will be automatically linked to your ORCiD
account and you are not required to provide a password to create the
deposition.


Any contact authors with ORCiDs added in the deposition system will then be
able to access the deposition through their ORCiD authentication, rather than
needing a password.


Note to biocurators: we did not back-populate the database with orchids for older entries that were deposited prior to orchid login implementation. In such cases orcid login might not work. Ezra can assist to make it happen for a particular entry.


	JB (added by MRS)




DA (added by IP)
















IP


	Block in the deposition system
I have bypassed the block in the deposition system; you should now be able to submit the deposition.
	BH
	

File upload failed, how to re-set
Any change in polymer chain IDs or in the number of polymer chains requires that the deposition interface be reset.  Here is how you can do this:


After you have attempted to upload your new coordinate file and have received an error (red gears on the error page), attempt to upload the same file a second time.  This time, after you have selected the new file and de-selected the old file from the file list, a new option should appear at the bottom of the Re-upload files page.  This new option will include a button that you can push to reset the deposition interface and incorporate the new coordinate file.


Please note that you may need to manually re-input some information following the reset. 
	IP (from BH)
	

How to update the contact email, so the depositor can request password
Annotator will update email in 
_pdbx_depui_entry_details.validated_contact_email
(so that the depositor can request password)
_pdbx_contact_author.email
(so that the depositor can receive communications)


Note to biocurators: Need to reset before sending communication to the depositor to inform them that email was updated and that they can go ahead and login.
Requesting password also requires that the DepUi for the session is opened. This will trigger the pickle file to be generated and password can be requested by the depositors from the contact list.
	MRS, MZ










IP
	

Corresponding via the deposition interface
Please login to your deposition session and send your requests through the deposition interface. This is to ensure all the correspondence is properly archived and acted upon.
	IP
	

Depositing multiple structures
To minimize manual data input, it is best to prepare files for deposition using pdb_extract http://pdb-extract.wwpdb.org

- Upload coordinate and sf files from the final round of refinement; if you also upload LOG/output files in the fields marked by *, then the information regarding "Collection Statistics" and "Refinement" will be automatically parsed from these file(s). Use the output files from pdb_extract for wwPDB Deposition.

- Start and complete deposition of the first of N related entries. Make sure to enter the most accurate and complete information for the first entry, as you will be able to reuse this information in the subsequent related entries' depositions.


- As soon as you deposit the first of N related entries, use the option 'Based on a previous wwPDB deposition' to import information from a previous wwPDB deposition, and select information that you would like to port
Contact information
Entry title & author
Citation information

- Proceed with deposition


Another answer:
Yes, you can start multiple depositions for multiple different structures,
however you will have to begin each one individually. You will also only be
able to log in to one deposition at a time. If all depositions are related,
then you can begin one of the depositions and fill in much of the information
- you can then base your following depositions upon the initial deposition,
enabling much of the meta-data to be copied to your new depositions.


If you have any further questions about your specific depositions then please
contact us via the communication tab within your deposition session.




	MZ
	

What is the best way to get PDB accession numbers in a row?
wwPDB doesn't reserve a set of PDB IDs for related depositions.  The PDB IDs are assigned based on submission time stamps. If you wish to get a set of consecutive PDB IDs, please try to 1) fill in all required fields for each deposition session, and only leave the submit button, 2) try to click submit button for the sessions one by one in a short time period, and select a not-busy time window, like late at night. Please note that we cannot guarantee you will get consecutive IDs by any means.


Also note that the deposition system does not support multiple simultaneous depositions, so you will need to log out the old session before entering a new session.
	YHL (added by MRS)
	

What fields are mandatory in "Collection Statistics" and "Refinement" tabs?
To avoid manual entry, it is best to prepare files using pdb_extract 
http://pdb-extract.wwpdb.org

Upload the coordinate and sf files from the final round of refinement; if you also upload LOG/output files in the fields marked by *, then all the information regarding "Collection Statistics" and "Refinement" will be automatically parsed from those files.
Use the output files from pdb_extract for wwPDB Deposition.


In addition, some refinement packages, such as Phenix and REFMAC can output files in mmCIF format. These may be used directly.
	MZ EP
	

Depositor cannot upload Phenix/Refmac cif file without refinement stats
Encourage the depositor to prepare a proper file.  Refer them to the “Preparing PDBx/mmCIF files for Depositing Structures” page:
http://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/preparing-pdbx-mmcif-files


Which gives info about :
Refinement packages
Recent versions of refinement packages Phenix, REFMAC, and Buster generate PDBx/mmCIF files ready for deposition:
Phenix: Instructions are available at the Phenix website, https://www.phenix-online.org/documentation/overviews/xray-structure-deposition.html
CCP4: instructions are available for CCP4i2 (http://www.ccp4.ac.uk/deposition_ccp4i2) or CCP4 Cloud (http://www.ccp4.ac.uk/deposition_ccp4cloud)
REFMAC (when using outside of CCP4i2 or CCP4 Cloud): To output a PDBx/mmCIF file from REFMAC, add a card that reads "pdbout format mmcif". REFMAC can also read a file by specifying a PDBx/mmCIF file as an HKLIN argument.
Buster: Instructions are available at the Buster website (https://www.globalphasing.com/buster/wiki/index.cgi?DepositionMmCif)


OR 
Recent versions of refinement packages Phenix, REFMAC, and Buster generate PDBx/mmCIF files ready for deposition.  We are encouraging depositors to use files directly from refinement - and not needing to convert.  More information on outputting and preparing PDBx/mmCIF format files for deposition can be found here:
https://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/preparing-pdbx-mmcif-files


For users of other structure determination/refinement software packages, the wwPDB provides stand-alone and web-based tools to convert legacy PDB format files into PDBx/mmCIF format:


https://pdb-extract.wwpdb.org/


If they still cannot figure it out suggest using their PDB format data files with pdb_extract and the wwPDB Deposition Tool:
Go to http://pdb-extract.wwpdb.org and upload the coordinate and sf files from the final round of refinement; if you also upload LOG/output files in the fields marked by *, then all the information regarding "Collection Statistics" and "Refinement" will be automatically parsed from those files.
Use the output files from pdb_extract for wwPDB Deposition.


	MRS
	What does the "Method to determine assembly" in the "Biological Assembly" tab mean
If you have  any biophysical experimental information on the assembly, such as gel filtration, etc., please provide that during deposition.
	MZ 
	

Ligand shown at DepUI does not match ligand from structure
If you provide an image of the ligand or a SMILES string with your deposition, we will make sure that the ligand is correctly added to our chemical component dictionary during processing.
	BH 
	

I have methylated Ser residue. But the CH3 residue is obsolete 
The CH3 group belongs to the modified residue and should be merged with the residue and represented as a single modified residue. Examples of methylated L-Serine are 7C9 and 5JP. 
http://ligand-expo.rcsb.org/pyapps/ldHandler.py?formid=cc-index-search&target=5jp&operation=ccid
http://ligand-expo.rcsb.org/pyapps/ldHandler.py?formid=cc-index-search&target=7c9&operation=ccid
However, you can use 3-letter code of your choice for your modified residue. The 3-letter code will be standardized during entry processing.
	YHL, MZ
	

Ligand browser shows MSE without hydroxyl group
Please ignore the warning. Since MSE is present in the protein sequence, the OXT is leaving to form a peptide bond (thus missing hydroxyl group). By design, the Ligand tool at the Deposition interface will issue a warning unless an exact match is found. It does not mean the ligand or modified residue is wrong or not recognized. It is designed to draw the depositor's attention to verify and confirm the chemical entity.
	MZ, YHL
	

Bad Data error: Structure contains Residual B values
Your coordinates file has partial B-values. As per the wwPDB Processing Procedures and Policies Document http://wwpdb.org/documentation/policy and https://www.wwpdb.org/deposition/refmac-user-notice


For structures determined by X-ray crystallography, all atoms must contain full B factors. If TLS was used during refinement, the residual B factors must be converted to full B factors. All atoms described by TLS records must have associated ANISOU records. 
	SG EP
	

Chain ID and Residue # in validation report differ from input PDB file 
As per the wwPDB annotation policy http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/procedure#toc_4
each polymer is assigned a unique chain ID. Chain IDs for all bound moieties and waters are assigned based on their proximity (number of contacts) to the nearest polymer.


You can proceed with using your coordinate file for your deposition. You do not need to change any chain ID or residue number for the deposition.  These will be updated during the annotation process.
	SG EP MZ
	

Peptidomimetic ligand -- do I deposit as a ligand or a peptide?
Please go ahead and deposit the molecule as you have it. During the annotation process, the molecule will either be presented as a single molecule or as a peptide. The presentation will be determined according to wwPDB guidelines. 


Please provide any pertinent information concerning the molecule: its biological function, residue composition and protein modification, non-standard linkages between residues, and covalent bonding to the protein or other molecules, etc.This will help annotator to better understand and properly present the molecule.
	MZ 
	

Purging sessions due to long period of inactivity
Unsubmitted sessions are deleted after 3 months of inactivity. The session has expired and all information related to that session was purged. Please start a new deposition session, as this one can not be recovered.
	IP EP
	

FTP upload: how to upload maps (>3GB each)
NOTE: the below instructions seem outdated. We now prefer to take files via box. Create a box folder and share it with the depositor.


First response (depending on file size):  
Depending on your network connectivity, you might have no issue uploading your 2.5Gb file. I would say, give it a try.  If you do have an issue, please
contact us using communication from within the deposition system and we can provide alternative options.


Second response:
I have enabled the FTP upload for this entry & have sent you a message through the communication page of deposition session D_XXXXXXXX at deposit.wwpdb.org. The message gives you the instructions for FTP uploading.


Note to annotator: Press open the summary page for the entry and press allow FTP upload and this will send an email message to the depositor giving them the instructions for FTP uploading.
	IP




EP and SG
	

EM MAP only, but selected coordinates also
I am having two problems: 1. I do not have PDB coordinates to upload, only the experimental data and I can’t seem to reset that; 2. I am not sure if the xml file I uploaded for the FSC coordinates is sufficient
	

	In response to your questions:
1. You had selected to get a PDB  accession code...& that is why the system expects a coordinates file. If you are depositing a map-only entry, you need to start a new deposition & select the option:
Are you depositing coordinates with this submission?
No, experimental data only.

2. FSC coordinate:  If you have used the EMDB FSC curve generator
(https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe/emdb/validation/fsc/) to generate the FSC 
File, then it should be okay.

Please let us know if you have any questions.
	SG
	



When depositor asks about depositing polyAla sequence for an EM model
There are two slightly differing cases for poly-Ala modeled chains. 


1. If you know the register of the amino acids and model the backbone for each one in sequence (just the side chains are un-modelled), then these should be submitted with either the correct amino acid names, or as poly-Alanines which we will re-name to the correct amino acid nomenclature. 
2. If you do not know the register of the amino acid sequence and therefore cannot unambiguously determine the identity of the amino acids, then these regions should instead be modeled as poly-UNK, which is our nomenclature for unknown residues.

I hope that helps clarify things and please let us know if you have any further
queries.
	MRS (David’s answer)
	

Twinning fraction and LLDF values
NOTE: the below instructions seem outdated. LLDF is no longer used for validation reports.


The current validation report includes values for Padilla Yates L-tests and
quotes any small twin fraction. Newer versions of x-triage include a clearer
assessment of twinning or not and we plan to include this in the report. It is
difficult to match which validation report matches up with xtriage report. In
any case given that in all reports there are problems in either running REFMAC
at all for EDS or DCC or in picking up the free set for the reflection file
there are likely to be issues in how the structure factors are being
recognized.

Recent work has indicated that LLDF is not a good measure of whether a ligand
fits electron density as although most "good" ligands have LLDF values below 2
and most "bad" ligands do not, the false positive and negative rates are high.
We are working on improving this in the validation report.
	IP


MZ by way of Oliver
	



Long twinning answer including dictionary items


Thank you for your message.  Structures based on twinned crystal diffraction data can be identified through use of the recent addition of twinning tokens to the mmCIF public exchange dictionary, pdbx_reflns_twin. The tokens can be used for identification of twinning operator, type, and fraction.  More information about the tokens can be found here:
http://mmcif.wwpdb.org/dictionaries/mmcif_pdbx_v50.dic/Categories/pdbx_reflns_twin.html
The structure factor file for a twinned structure should include the winned data used for refinement first. If you have the detwinned data, it may also be included in the file. If you include both the twinned and detwinned data, the pdbx_reflns_twin tokens should also be included in the sf file.


The current validation report includes values for Padilla Yates L-tests and quotes any small twin fraction. Newer versions of x-triage include a clearer assessment of twinning or not and we plan to include this in the report. It is difficult to match which validation report matches up with xtriage report. In any case given that in all reports there are problems in either running REFMAC at all for EDS or DCC or in picking up the free set for the reflection file there are likely to be issues in how the structure factors are being recognized.


For more information, you can read the "Twinned structures" section here: https://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/procedure#toc_12






	

	





BMRB EMD Depositions
Depositors included BMRB and EMD accession numbers, and want to know why they are still required to add a lot of EM and BMRB related data that has already been included in the BMRB and EMD depositions. Shouldn't this information be automatically retrieved?
	

	While you have submitted data elsewhere, we need to capture all data relevant to validation of your entry. This will include metadata that will be displayed in your entry.  
	EP (added by MRS)
	

Funding Organization
I cannot add my funding sources (Simons Foundation and Agouron). I am getting the following error:  Value not in the enumeration list for this item   Please advise. I cannot deposit until i update the funding information
	SG
	Under the Funding Organisation: Please pick either "Other private" or "Other government" & under Grant Number: enter Simons Foundation / 349247
	

	

OneDep requires only one chemical shift file, how do I combine them?


There are three steps for combining your two str files.

1. For the first str file, please add the following to the top of the file:

save_assigned_chemical_shifts_1

2. For the second str file, please add the following to the top of the file:

save_assigned_chemical_shifts_2

3. Copy and paste the data from the second str file to the bottom of the first str file.


	MRS
	



I see an “ORCID’ number is required for deposition. However, I don’t have this number. How should I proceed?


Thank you for your inquiry.  As we already announced, ORCiD ID is mandatory for your deposition.

It is very easy and takes only a few minutes for you to get your ID at 
https://orcid.org/ .

Please finish your deposition after you get your ORCiD. It is required 
for all contact authors.




OR FOR CLARIFICATION ON ORCID IDS:


You only are required to have ORCIDs for the contact authors. These are
the personnel who we will be sending reports and asking for verification and
changes.


Structure authors may include more people. While ORCIDs are not required, they
may help in the future to discriminate between two entry authors with the same
name.


A number of journals are now asking for ORCID if available as well.


	YK (added by MRS)




















EP (added by MRS)
	





For entries with Dep ID D_12XXXXXXXX (PDBe) or D_13XXXXXXXX (PDBj)


Thank you for the information. That particular session is on the server that is managed by our colleagues at PDBe (or PDBj).
I am going to put your case into their capable hands. They will be able to help
you with the issue.



Or 
Dear Depositor,


Thank you for your message.  These entries were processed by our colleagues at PDBe.  Please use the communication system within the OneDep system for your entries.   This ensures that we are communicating with the correct person and that all communication is logged in a central place.


We do not handle correspondence for entries via email.


Best,


The wwPDB Annotation Staff 
	BH (added by MRS)












JB (added by MRS)
	



















Related to Annotation and entry processing
Requesting clarification on bound ligand
We need clarification on the ligand moiety which is bound to the protein.


Please provide:
- a chemical name for the ligand before it was bound to the protein
- a chemical structure of the ligand before it was bound to the protein: SMILE string or a web link to an image where the chemical structure would be evident, including atom types, bond orders, chiralities, and leaving groups, if any.
- any details that may be helpful in clarifying ligand binding mode (ring opening, leaving groups, etc.)
- function of the molecule (inhibitor, substrate, etc.)
	MZ 
	

Requesting descriptive entry title
Please provide a descriptive entry title reflecting the entry content.


If necessary, the title will be suppressed until release, meaning it will not be available to the public until the entry is released. Please provide the updated title and indicate if you wish the title to be suppressed.
	MZ 
	

Microheterogeneity


How microheterogeneity cases for polymers and ligands are handled and why?


	BH
	Microheterogeneity is handled differently in polymers and in ligands.


In the PDB, all distinct chemical entities, be they isolated ligands or amino acids (or nucleotides) within a polymer, must be identified with a unique combination of chain identifier and residue number.


The use of alternate conformation IDs (A,B,...) is a mechanism by which we indicate that multiple things, be they alternate conformations of the same atom(s) or two or more entirely different objects, are occupying the same space.


Where alternate conformations exist, all conformations can have the same chain ID and residue number because they are technically the same chemical entity.  They can therefore be distinguished by their alternate conformation IDs.


Where alternate configurations exist (e.g., enantiomers, diastereomers, chemical modifications, etc.), the different configurations are chemically distinct (with different three-letter codes) and therefore must be identified using different residue numbers.  In this way, a pair of enantiomers such as J1R and J1S is treated no differently than a water molecule and a magnesium ion modeled into the same density, i.e., they have different residue numbers in addition to having different alternate conformation IDs.  They are different chemical entities that happen to occupy the same space in the model.


Residue numbering in a polymer, however, serves two purposes: (1) to differentiate a particular residue from other residues of the same type, and (2) to identify that residue's specific position within the polymer.  Because of (2), we need to make an exception to the rules listed above and allow residues with microheterogeneity to have the same residue number regardless of their chemical identity.  Hence a residue within a protein that is modeled partially as CYS and CSO will have the same residue numbering for both configurations.


	

	

How to keep secondary structure information when using PDB_Extract?




pdb_extract will not retain secondary structure elements.  If after processing you are unhappy with the secondary structure assigned by DSSP, please let us know via Communication under Navigation, and we will incorporate your secondary structural elements.


	MZ /EP
	

Software for secondary structure information




I was wondering how you annotated the pdb file for secondary structure? I would like to make sure that my future depositions have well annotated secondary structure that I can do myself easily (so other people don't have to type DSS in pymol).


	GC
	We use an in-house implementation of the third-party software Promotif. Our re-implementation is integrated into the Maxit software, which you may download from https://sw-tools.rcsb.org/apps/MAXIT/source.html. Does this help?


	

	

When depositors complain about biological assembly annotation




For consistency of the archive, we must describe the biological unit based on the number of chains for each different macromolecule type. This designation is based on a strict count of polymer chains present in the assembly. This assembly comprises two chains and is therefore labeled a dimer. 


	LD/BH (added by MRS)
	

Distant Waters
The distant water list is provided for your verification. The distant waters check does not take neighboring water/ligands into account, but only checks the proximity of that water molecule to oxygen and nitrogen atoms in the  polymeric entity.  If the water(s) in question belong to a higher order solvation shell (bound to other waters), or if it is bound to other ligand(s), no action needs to be taken. 
	MZ EP 
	

Sugars missing O1
The following residues have missing atoms:


RES MOD# C SEQ              ATOMS


         NAG(         B 607)              O1
         NAG(         A 605)              O1


This normally is an indicator of the following:
- NAG is not properly linked to the corresponding protein or other residue (in case NAG is bound)
- The O1 of NAG is not modeled (in case NAG is unbound).


Please check and upload updated coordinates if necessary.
	MZ
	

ANSIOU present, but I never used TLS for refinement
If the PDB file contains ANISOU parameters, you either used TLS or individually refined parameters (unlikely at this resolution). To resolve this, please
- provide the file with TLS records since these were used in the refinement
or
- remove ANSIOU and run the full round of refinement. The R values may go up because you refine without TLS records.


Note that removing the TLS records and running one cycle of refinement without allowing it to converge is troublesome for the following reasons:


- The R values that you are reporting are not reproducible (the user will not have access to TLS ranges, and will not be able to reproduce the work);
- The R values currently present are misleading because only one cycle was run without allowing the refinement to converge;
- Some programs will interpret ANSOU in the absence of TLS as individually refined parameters, producing completely wrong results.
	MZ EP
	





I do NOT have a TLS header, meaning I never refined using TLS
The file contains ANISOU records.


ATOM          1  N   VAL A 234           1.559  40.878  -0.577  1.00 36.09               N  
ANISOU        1  N   VAL A 234         5313   4351   4050        375        360        412           N  
ATOM          2  CA  VAL A 234           2.795  41.492  -1.042  1.00 35.66               C  
ANISOU        2  CA  VAL A 234         5190   4424   3933        499        392        333           C  
ATOM          3  C   VAL A 234           3.698  41.895   0.127  1.00 32.22               C  
ANISOU        3  C   VAL A 234         4822   3911   3509        468        413        390           C
...


that means that you refined ADPs anisotropically. You either used TLS restraints to do that, or refined them individually.
The resolution is high enough to do individual refinement and still get a decent data-to-parameter ratio.
REMARK   2 RESOLUTION.        1.40 ANGSTROMS.


So you either did TLS restraints and lost the header info at some point (which is common), or you refined individually.
See if you can recover the TLS information if you indeed used it for refinement.


see if this helps
https://www.phenix-online.org/documentation/faqs/refine.html#b-factors-adps-tls
	MZ 
	Water on special position
The occupancy of water located on a special position was adjusted according to the multiplicity of that special position.
In your case the occupancy for that water is 1/2 (2 being multiplicity of the special position).
See if this helps:
https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=3&ved=2ahUKEwjD1YnF_cLeAhVIJt8KHZSlDJkQFjACegQIBBAC&url=https%3A%2F%2Fmcl1.ncifcrf.gov%2Fnihxray%2FTips-and-Tricks_Special%2520positions_Mariusz-Jaskolski_20130308.pdf&usg=AOvVaw3WLcwfgAKAIOl93JKkocn4
	MZ
	

Related to Re-upload/Post-processing/Release
I can only see "preliminary validation report" 
The validation report and processed files are attached with the validation letter.  Please go to the Communication under Navigation and locate the message with the subject line “... Validation report and processed files are ready for your review”.
Open the message and scroll down to see attachments.


If you re-uploaded new data files, and more than one validation report was sent, then locate the message containing the latest validation report. 


	MZ EP
	

Please unlock deposition
There are no issues with this entry. It is quicker to make minor edits from our side.
If the edits  require changes in the coordinate section and/or re-refinement, I will open the depUI for you to re-upload. Otherwise, please provide the correct information, and I will update it on my end.
	MZ
	

I want to change macromolecule name/source/expression system, etc. but the page is locked
Meta-data that is tightly coupled to the annotation process cannot be changed by the depositor after annotation. To make such requests, please use the communication tab to send a message.
	EP
	





Why my entry is not released -- the manuscript has been published
We are not always able to automatically find citation to match to the PDB(s), especially when the tentative citation title has a very low matching score to the final citation title. Providing citation title as close as possible to the final citation title will increase the likelihood of a good matching score. 


PDB also relies on authors, journals, and general users to notify us on the publication of the primary citation that references PDB entry.
	MZ 
	Do you do the automatic match of your PDBs to the publications?
We will automatically detect and update citation information if the tentative citation information (title, author list) provided with the entry is close enough to the final publication information for our automated searches to identify a match. 
	BH
	

How to get the DepUI to accept coordinates being re-uploaded with different chain labels or a different number of chains?
Any change in polymer chain IDs or in the number of polymer chains requires that the deposition interface be reset.  Here is how you can do this:


After you have attempted to upload your new coordinate file and have received an error (red gears on the error page), attempt to upload the same file a second time.  This time, after you have selected the new file and de-selected the old file from the file list, a new option should appear at the bottom of the Re-upload files page.  This new option will include a button that you can push to reset the deposition interface and incorporate the new coordinate file.


Please note that you may need to manually re-input some information following the reset.
	BH
	



Delay with manuscript submission & request to extend hold 
We normally grant a hold date extension only if the primary citation associated with the entry in question has been submitted to a journal.


Please consider withdrawing the entry and re-depositing at a later date. This way you will get a fresh 1 year hold, which will give you ample time for dealing with any delays that may happen along the process of manuscript submission/review/ revision, etc.


Note that re-deposition is made much more easier in the OneDep system:
(1) use the processed files and (2) select an option to base your deposition on the previous session (provide the deposition ID/password, and select information to be ported from that previous deposition to the new deposition). This way, the manual input is minimized, and the deposition/validation will be a breeze.


Please let us know if you wish to release immediately or withdraw and re-submit.
	MZ
	



Withdrawing expired WAIT entry, multiple reminders


According  to the "Policies on release of PDB files" section of the annotation
policies at http://www.wwpdb.org/docs.html, entries cannot be held for more than one year past the date of deposition.  This entry was deposited on 2017-02-19.  We sent you multiple reminders, but still have not heard from you since you requested to submit new coordinates on 2017-03-18 and the entry has been on WAIT status ever since.

This message is to inform you that your structure and the associated experimental data which were deposited with release instructions, 'HPUB', will be withdrawn on 2018-02-28.
	SG/MZ
	



Depositing large number of entries -- Group Deposition 


We have 117 structures of the same protein complexed with different ligands
we would like to deposit…


You can try the Group Deposition system that allows you to upload tar files of these related structures. However, all the files (both coordinate model and sf files if it is X-ray) must be prepared in complete mmCIF format files. Let me know if you are interested and we can provide you with the guidelines for deposition.
	MZ by JY
	NOTE to annotators: do not disclose the instructions over RT or any other way that will be visible to the Partners.
	

	

Related to various experimental methods


EM
EM entry - do B factors mean anything?
For EM, it depends upon the refinement method.  In some cases (rigid body or flexible fitting, for instance), B factors are irrelevant, so a zero B factor is meaningless.  For others (where a program such as REFMAC or PHENIX has been used), B factors are calculated, so a zero B factor may be indicative of an error.


A warning at deposition is okay (especially considering that X-ray-style refinement is becoming more and more common) so long as the warning is a gentle one that doesn't panic depositors who haven't calculated B factors.  This should not be a blocker for EM. 


	BH
	

Additional half maps and FSCs


Is there a way to have more than 1 set of half-maps deposited? I have a
composite map (main), a global map, and several focused maps (they make up the
composite map). Should I upload these maps as "Additional maps"? Currently, I
can't upload them as half-maps since there are two already associated with the
global map. Will several FSCs cause a problem? I do not see an error for this
file type after upload.


	

	For a composite map deposition, the associated consensus (global) map and all associated focused refinement maps must be individually deposited as separate depositions, each receiving its own EMDB ID.  The half maps (and the FSC) for these associated maps would then be provided as part of these associated depositions, eliminating any need to provide more than one pair of half maps as part of any deposition.  For more guidance on composite map depositions, please consult:


https://www.ebi.ac.uk/emdb/pages/documentation/deposition/composite_map


It is currently possible to deposit multiple FSC curves as part of a deposition, but we encourage depositors to provide only the FSC curve used to determine the reported resolution of the primary map.


	BH
	Depositing composite maps


In cryoEM datasets that I need to deposit there are 2 high-resolution map files per structure file. The maps were generated by masked refinements of the initial low-resolution map.
Is there a specific procedure of how to upload two map files in such cases? 
	IP via JackT@PDBe
	Thanks for your email. Information on how to best deposit composite cryo-EM maps can be found in section 1.3 of the EMDB policy documents (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/emdb/documentation/policies#1-3).


You will need to deposit each map file as its own entry, the entries we require are:


1. 1+ focused refinement entry(ies). These are the high resolution focused refinements used to build the composite map, they should be deposited as their own entries with associate half-maps. They can be deposited either as map-only entries or with the part of the model which was built into them, whichever works best for you.


2. 1 Consensus map as its own entry. This is the low resolution map of the full structure. We ask for this so that there is experimental evidence in the archive for the composite map which has been built.


3. 1 Composite map as its own entry. This should be the composite map and model (if there is one). When setting up the deposition there is a yes/no question asking whether this is a composite map entry, select yes, this will remove the requirement for you to provide half-maps for this deposition. In the related entries section of the deposition interface we ask that you add the EMD codes for the focused refinements and consensus map and describe them as such in the details section.


We are aware that the current system for composite map deposition is non-optimal and are working on short and long term solutions to improve the deposition experience. 
	

	

No half maps for subtomogram average maps generated by PEET software.
I would like to deposit a subtomogram average map, and I generated the map using the software PEET before the deposition of half maps was required. PEET does not provide half maps. Can I somehow still submit my map without half maps?
	YHL (Jack’s answer)
	PEET does have the ability to output half-maps. We would encourage you to run your experiment in the way described on this page:
https://bio3d.colorado.edu/ftp/PEET/man/html/man1/calcUnbiasedFSC.1.html
In this scenario it may be too late for that, you will need to use this function with the fnHalfVolume flag filled in:
https://bio3d.colorado.edu/ftp/PEET/man/html/man1/calcFSC.1.html
	

	

What "unfiltered, unmasked, unsharpened" means in terms of performing half-map calculations.
I am at loss to understand what "unfiltered, unmasked, unsharpened" means in terms of performing half-map calculations.
	

	We require half-maps which do not have a hard-coded alignment mask AND which have not been further processed since being output by the alignment and/or averaging programs that are being used. The half-maps are then used to generate EM validation metrics which can be viewed on the EMDB entry pages and in the wwPDB validation report. We appreciate that alignment and averaging programs will apply some level of filtering and processing to the input data during refinement, we still allow these half-maps.
	YHL (Jack’s answer)
	

2D image data, EMPIAR
I want to upload particle stacks for each structure, each ~5GB. What would be the best way to share this raw data?


	

	EMDB only archives 3D reconstructions/volumes.  If you want to deposit 2D image data such as particle stacks, you should upload that data to the EMPIAR archive:
https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe/emdb/empiar/


If you provide us with an EMPIAR accession code, we can link the EMDB entry to it.
	MZ / BH
	

Scanning electron microscopy images, BioImage Archive
In the course of submission of our data to BMC Genomics, we have been asked to "deposit our scanning electron microscopy images" in an appropriate database.


	

	EMPIAR doesn't accept 2D scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image data. Please
instead deposit this data to the BioImage Archive (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/
bioimage-archive/submit/).


	IP (from Osamn)
	Asking for consensus maps
In case consensus map is missing in related entries filed for composite map, the following question can be asked:
	

	This deposition has been identified as a composite map deposition.  For composite map depositions, EMDB requires the concurrent deposition of focused refinement maps and consensus maps.


Please provide the EMDB ID for the consensus map associated with this composite map deposition.  Please note that this must be the EMDB ID of a deposition for which the consensus map is the primary map of the deposition.


We have paused processing of this entry until we have received this information.  When we have received the EMDB ID of the associated consensus map, we will be able to proceed with the processing of this deposition. 


	IP (from BH)
	How to select contour level
How do I choose which contour to submit?
	

	The recommended contour level that you provide affects two things:  (1) the
atom inclusion values that are presented in the wwPDB validation report, and
(2) the default appearance of the primary map in visualizations in the
validation report and (eventually, after deposition and release) on the EMDB
web page.


Even though we present it in the validation report, atom inclusion (which is
easy and quick to calculate) is regarded by many as a poor measure of
map-model fit due to the fact that it will go to 100% as contour level goes to
zero, so it's possible to dial in a desired atom inclusion score regardless of
the actual quality of fit by simply picking a low enough contour level.
Better measures of map-model fit are Q-score (also presented in the validation
report; good if your resolution is better than 4-5 Angstrom) or correlation
coefficient (such as can be calculated in Phenix).


In addition, contour levels that guarantee a high atom inclusion score often
result in visualizations that are bloated and noisy and present the map
poorly.


Some users will still look the atom inclusion score, so many depositors try to
balance atom inclusion with aesthetics when choosing a contour level.  My
recommendation, however, would be to err on the side of aesthetics and pick a
contour level that you would use for presenting the map in a journal figure
and be less concerned about the calculated atom inclusion.
	IP (from BH)
	Largest variance slice 
I noticed that section 6.3.2,  for the largest variance slice, is displaying X and Y slice 0 without any visible protein densities. Should I be concerned about this? Does it need to be corrected before sending it to the reviewers?
	

	It's okay. Raw half maps tend to be very noisy, often with the most noise at the volume edges. This can result in an edge being selected as the highest variant slice of a raw map. The maps look okay otherwise, so there is no action required on your part.
	IP (from BH)
	NMR
Depositor asks questions regarding BMRB entry (requests the BMRB
Report, requests to release BMRB entry, etc)
Please contact BMRB at help@bmrb.io with your request.  


	MRS
	OneDep requires a chemical shift file in NMR-STAR 3.1 format.  How do I generate this?
Simple answer:
For help creating NMR_STAR V3.1 formatted files go to:
https://bmrb.io/deposit/shifts_example_help.shtml


You can use BMRB's STARch file converter to convert data files in various formats to NMR-STAR 3.1.  Input formats include NMRView, PIPP, Sparky, XEASY, as well as tab- and comma-delimited.  You can find STARch here: https://bmrb.io/software/starch/
Please note that many software packages can export NMR-STAR (e.g. NMRView, CCPN).  Please use that option, if available, instead of STARch to avoid potential loss of information during conversion.


STARch output is a "bare" data table (loop), not a complete STAR file.  To create a complete file, you can use the NMR-STAR template generator to produce NMR-STAR 3.1 formatted tables for NMR data:
https://bmrb.io/software/tablegen/


An excellent example of an NMR-STAR file with a number of types of data is entry 4267: Apo-HNGAL Human Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin:
https://bmrb.io/ftp/pub/bmrb/entry_directories/bmr4267/bmr4267_3.str


If you need further help with BMRB tools, please contact them at help@bmrb.io






	MRS
	







OneDep requires only one chemical shift file, how do I combine them?


There are three steps for combining your two str files.

1. For the first str file, please add the following to the top of the file:

save_assigned_chemical_shifts_1

2. For the second str file, please add the following to the top of the file:

save_assigned_chemical_shifts_2

3. Copy and paste the data from the second str file to the bottom of the first str file.


	MRS
	What is an "AMBER auxiliary file" for NMR depositions?  
AMBER auxiliary coordinate file" also called "Auxiliary sequence file from AMBER" numbers the atoms in a PDB-style format. The actual restraints then refer to these numbers rather than atom names. The "AMBER auxiliary coordinate" file looks like this:


http://ambermd.org/tutorials/basic/tutorial0/include/inpcrd
http://ambermd.org/tutorials/advanced/tutorial1_orig/files/1PLC.inpcrd



The tutorial for creating the files is located here:
http://ambermd.org/tutorials/advanced/tutorial1_orig/section4.htm



During file upload, you may see that "system does not recognize the file format" warning and you can ignore the warning.  Currently, the system only recognizes, cif, pdb, and star formats. 
	MRS, MZ
	

NMR hydrogens and Molprobity 
I uploaded two structures (calculated by using solution NMR data) into the
validation service. The report showed that there are 49 clashes but none of
them appeared in my models. It looks the clashes were caused by adding
hydrogens from the program MolProbity. I wonder if PDB validation can give me the option to keep my hydrogens when processing Molprobity.
	MRS/LD
	Yes, Molprobity will add the hydrogens as you have noticed, and to generate a
complete model.  For consistency of the PDB archive  Molprobity calculation is performed in the same way without keeping the original/provided hydrogen atoms.


Hydrogen clashes in pdf report for x-ray entries;
The clashes between hydrogens are there because molprobity adds the hydrogens to generate a complete model.  You can inspect the areas around those hydrogens and see if there really is an issue.
	

	



Graduate student asks how to improve their NMR validation pdf report
I'm sure that your research group has protocols and preferred practices for refining NMR models, but if you're looking for some additional resources please see:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25330971/
And 
https://www.wwpdb.org/validation/2017/NMRValidationReportHelp#close_contacts


	BH/MRS
	



Do you accept NMR structures derived without spatial restraints? This mainly applies to entries calculated by the CS-ROSETTA, HADDOCK, and NMR2 software packages.
The PDB does not accept chemical-shift, chemical shift perturbation (CSP), or restraint-only entries.  Please submit your structure to PDB-Dev https://pdb-dev.wwpdb.org/deposit.html


	MRS added after wwPDB NMR leads discussion on 4/22/2021
	





Joint Methods
Preparing SF file for joint X-ray and Neutron structure
Option 1: online SF-tool http://sf-tool.wwpdb.org/


1.  upload your mtzfile to SF-tool
2.  select "Semi-automatic MTZ (or CNS) conversion to mmCIF", indicate number of data sets as 2.
3.  In the next page, use the pull-down menu to select the labels in the mtz file.
4.  run the SF-tool.


You will get the mmcif file which contains two data blocks. The first one should be Xray, and second should be Neutron.


Option 2: command line
   1. download the pdb_extract program from http://sw-tools.rcsb.org/apps/PDB_EXTRACT/source.html.  The latest version has the sf_convert in the ?/bin/ directory.
   2. Type 'sf_convert -h' for help, once you installed the program
   3. Run the command: 
sf_convert -o mmcif -sf  mtzfile   -label  FP=F, SIGFP=SIGF, FREE=FreeR_flag : I=IMEAN, SIGI=SIGIMEAN  -out test.cif


In this example, there are two data sets separated by ':'.  The second block should be the neutron.
	HY, MZ
	
X-ray, Sf-Tool
Using SF file to calculate the map and open in COOT 
If there are no phase (phi) and map coefficient in the processed SF file (these data items are not required or mandatory), COOT will not display the map.


The map (phi/coefficients) could be easily calculated using these simple steps:


Open SF-tool(http://sf-tool.wwpdb.org/
Enter a PDB code or upload your files
Select the button "X-ray data using Refmac” and press “RUN”
Download the mtz file and upload it to COOT for display
	MZ, HY
	



Incorrect Free R Test Set
The calculated free R is less than the reported value for free R, and is similar to the reported and calculated values of R for the working set. This strongly suggests that the free R test set present in the deposited structure file is incorrect.  Please provide a revised structure factor file that contains flags for the free R test set that was used during refinement of this structure. 


	BH (added by MRS)
	





Related to validation process, validation reports, Stand alone validation server
Cannot continue deposition after validation server
Please note that the wwPDB Validation Service and OneDep system, although related, are entirely separate. The Validation ID cannot be used for deposition. Once you are satisfied that your structure is ready for deposition to the PDB you will need to start a new deposition at OneDep http://deposit.wwpdb.org.
This will involve creating a distinct different deposition ID.

For further details please see
https://www.wwpdb.org/validation/validation-servers

Please let us know if you need any further assistance. Once you have started your deposition the best way to do this is the Communication page within the deposition interface.


	MRS (courtesy of Oliver)
	

Question about Ramachandran angles in the validation report 
I had a question about your validation server.  I am using COOT to fix my Ramachandran angles.  They seem to be clearly in the blue and in the pink region.  However your server is saying they are incorrect.  Is there a program that I could use to check my Ramachandran angles and fix them better.
	SG
	Once the entry is submitted the wwPDB will use the same validation software to evaluate the quality of the model.  This validation report will be available to the public once the entry is released.  We suggest that you use the wwPDB validation server to evaluate your model.
	

	



What xml validation is for?
The XML file from the validation packages contains a machine readable
representation of the data presented in the PDF report. This is for an anyone
to use. These files are available on the public archive when an entry is
release. I believe coot can already download this file from the public
repository and point to areas with issues.


	EP
	What is DCC program and how does it calculate R values?
DCC is an in-house program used by PDB to validate structure factor files. It relies on external refinement packages like Refmac, Phenix, and CNS to calculate R-factors. DCC automatically selects the appropriate refinement package based on the depositor's entry (Refmac or Phenix) and uses the corresponding tool to compute R-factors.
DCC’s Approach:
For REFMAC, DCC iterates through common parameters to select the best option.
Phenix works more automatically, and CNS is the simplest in terms of handling parameters.
There are several challenges:
   1. Software Version Changes: Different versions of refinement software can yield varying results. For example, REFMAC changed its bulk solvent model in CCP4 7.0, leading to differences in results for the same input files.
   2. Unknown Parameters: DCC cannot always capture all parameters used by the depositor during refinement since not all of them are recorded by the software. While it tries to capture key items (e.g., bulk solvent correction), it cannot always fully reproduce the depositor's exact setup.
   3. Structure Factor File Conversion: In cases with complex data (e.g., F/I/I+/I-), it's difficult to know exactly what values the depositor used during refinement. For instance, if a wavelength was provided in the refinement process (especially important for metals), it may not be clear from the structure factor file itself.
	EP&GC, summarized by IP
	Policy related questions
Theoretical Models or integrative/hybrid model
We can accept models if they have been directly derived from experimental data (from X-ray crystallography, NMR, and/or electron microscopy).  For instance, if your model had been constructed by fitting the individual domains into an experimentally determined 3D reconstruction from electron microscopy, we would be able to accept it. Unfortunately, it doesn't sound like that is the case here.


You may wish to deposit your model in the Model Archive, however:
http://www.modelarchive.org/
This is a newer archive designed specifically for theoretical and homology models. 


OR 


The PDB archive only accepts structures that are derived primarily from
physical experiments (X-ray, NMR, EM). It sounds like yours is a computational
derived model.

There are two directions you can take:

a) For a purely theoretical model, the model archive will support such
depositions. See https://www.modelarchive.org

b) If this is an integrative/hybrid model using other biophysical data, you can
look at pdf-dev. https://pdb-dev.wwpdb.org/about/


	BH






























MRS (EP answer)
	

Can I replace coordinates for a released entry deposited using OneDep?


Dear Dr. ________,


As this entry has already been released, you have two options if you wish to make changes to the coordinates in this entry:


(1) You can make a new deposition with a new PDB ID that replaces this entry.  When the new entry is released, the old entry would be made obsolete.  This is the only option available if you also plan on making any changes to the structure factors for this entry.


-or-


(2) You can take advantage of a new feature that will allow you to upload corrected coordinates for a released entry deposited using OneDep.  Please note that the following three restrictions apply:


(a) Changes can only be made to coordinates and metadata.  Any changes to structure factors will require you to use option #1 instead.


(b) Coordinates can be changed only once per year per entry.  So if you upload corrected coordinates that are subsequently released, those coordinates cannot be corrected again immediately.


(c) Each Principal Investigator will only be allowed to correct three entries per year in this manner.  So if you are not the PI for this entry, please consult with your PI before requesting option #2.


Please let me know how you would like to proceed.  If you choose #2, we will unlock the deposition session for you.


Thank you,


wwPDB Biocuration Staff






	BH
	

	

	

Depositing old entry without SF File


The PDB policy (http://www.wwpdb.org/documentation/policy) states:


"On occasion, the wwPDB is asked to archive a structure that was determined before deposition of experimental data became mandatory and the experimental data are no longer available. It is difficult to validate such structures without experimental data.


In such cases, the wwPDB Directors/Heads will determine if the structure can be deposited to the PDB. Criteria for accepting structures determined by experimental methods but without experimental data are as follows: there is a peer-reviewed publication prior to January 1st 2008 describing the corresponding structure(s) and either the polymer sequence is not represented in the PDB archive or the deposition includes one or more ligand(s) not currently represented in the PDB Chemical Component Dictionary."




Please provide the information on publication, sequence, ligands, so we could make the decision on this entry acceptance.


	MZ via IP
	

Rare Questions
How to whitelist an email address


gmail sending our noreply.wwpdb.org messages to Spam


See this link for solutions
http://onlinegroups.net/blog/2014/02/25/how-to-whitelist-an-email-address/




Thank you for your message.  Please check your junk folder.  You can follow these instructions so that messages from noreply@mail.wwpdb.org go to your inbox:


http://onlinegroups.net/blog/2014/02/25/how-to-whitelist-an-email-address/


	MRS
	License for Biosync
I am writing to you with regards to how much is it to obtain a license to be able to use the Biosync software for a university student and/or PI.


We are currently using the compound discoverer software, and wanted to use the Biosync software as well. 
	IP via BH
	The contents of the BioSync website are available free to the public. No license is required and no external software packages are available. 
	

	Permission to use PDB illustrations (for RCSB.org)
NOTE: Current policy as of 2024 - requests like this should be sent to info@rcsb.org for Rachel to respond. But this is what she generally answers:




You have our permission.  Molecular images from RCSB PDB Structure 
Summary pages are free of all copyright restrictions and made fully and 
freely available for both non-commercial and commercial use.  The 
authors of the structural data producing the image and the RCSB PDB 
should be cited.


Our policies and citation information are available at: 
https://www.rcsb.org/pages/policies#References


Sincerely,


If the question is for wwPDB here are the links:
http://www.wwpdb.org/about/cite-us
https://www.wwpdb.org/about/usage-policies
	IP via Rachel 
	Redirecting non-deposition related questions from deposit-help to the help-desk of all partner sites
This email address is for help with depositing structures and data into the Protein Data Bank. For any questions regarding use of specific images from one of the
wwPDB data center websites, please refer to the help desk for that specific
web site. The email addresses of all of the wwPDB data centers may be found at
https://www.wwpdb.org/about/contact.
	GC
	How to map genomic positions into 3D structures
Mutations new to the SwissPar will not be reported on the validation track. In such a case, the genomic coordinates could be found using OMIM database.
https://www.omim.org/
If these mutation are available on OMIM, the server will output the genomic coordinates (i.e. the position on the GENE where the mutation occur)
Example: 


Result from OMIN corresponding to L444P


Human genome assembly 38, Chr1, 155,235,252 L444P
Human genome assembly 38, Chr1, 155,235,002 R496C


Input genomic coordinates values to :
Map Genomic Position to Protein Sequence and 3D Structure
https://www.rcsb.org/pdb/chromosome.do?v=hg38&chromosome=chr1&pos=155235252


Genome Assembly: GRCh38
Chromosome: Chr1
Position:155235252
Map
	LD, MZ
	



API for PDB
People should be familiar with https://www.rcsb.org/pages/webservices
Biojava or biopython is recommended, Mmtf would also be very helpful here: http://mmtf.rcsb.org
NOTE: Current policy as of 2024 - requests like this should be sent to info@rcsb.org for Rachel to respond. 
	MRS (from YHL triage week)
	



Hyperlinks to unreleased data


Q: We are in the process of publishing a paper with numerous PDB and EMDB entries and the journal is requiring hyperlinks to all structures be included in the final documents, however, none currently exist for the structures associated with this paper, probably because I chose to “hold for publication.”


A: For PDB data - you can use a syntax like


 https://doi.org/10.2210/pdb7T2P/pdb


When the structure is released, this page will provide information on the structure and links to different resources.


For EMDB - such a mechanism does not exist.


You could provide links like:


At EMDB: https://www.ebi.ac.uk/emdb/EMD-2020


https://www.emdataresource.org/EMD-2020


	IP via EP
	
Questions for which we don't have answers. Particularly health questions.

EXAMPLE QUESTION


I have a 9-year-old boy who has an allergy to certain foods. dairy products, soya peas, beans, lentils, aspartamine, some citric acids, I have been told that there is a possibility that he is allergic to an amino acid in the foods ,if there is any connection between these foods other than they are all high protein foods i would like to find out and possibly find a way for him to be able to overcome this allergy. If there is no way anyone can give me the information maybe you can point me in the direction !!!!!!!!!


	From old info webpage http://rcsb-info.rutgers.edu/info.html
	SAMPLE ANSWER
I am sorry, but the PDB does not provide that type of information.  We are a database which archives details of macromolecular structure experiments.
	

	





Generic response regarding complaints about structure quality
Please note that wwPDB biocurators do not judge the quality of deposited
structures. Also, we do not provide guidance on how to use and interpret predicted
models. Our role is to ensure that submitted experimental structure data are
complete, self-consistent, accurately annotated and properly validated. The
final decision ultimately rests with the depositor, and expert peer review is
expected to play a key role in evaluating the quality and accuracy. 


For further discussions regarding this structure, please contact the author
directly.
	IP (via JF)
	
















	

	

	

	Letter Templates
Impending publication of the primary citation & request to approve release
Dear Depositors,


We have been notified of the impending publication of the primary citation associated with entries XXXX.


Please approve the release of these entries. 


The earliest available release is YYYY, provided that your approval is received by this Thursday noon ET.
	MZ
	Encouraging depositors to release COVID-2019 entries 
Letter from PIs is available here: https://rcsbpdb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/S1PM/pages/1114996741/COVID-19+Immediate+Release+Request+from+PIs


	IP
	[a]@ezra.peisach@rcsb.org could you please look at this section? I need info about what to use each directory for. Also I am not sure how to use the info about the workflow directory. Thank you!
_Assigned to ezra.peisach@rcsb.org_
[b]@ezra.peisach@rcsb.org could you please go over this section and update/add info as necessary? Thank you!
[c]IS this for RCSB only? Assuming yes.
[d]@ezra.peisach@rcsb.org yes, our internal triage document. I think I got most things right but you might add and also there was one strange section which I don't see anymore, probably you removed it.
[e]@sutapa.ghosh@rcsb.org @brian.hudson@rcsb.org @monica.sekharan@rcsb.org @gregg.crichlow@rcsb.org @justin.flatt@rcsb.org @yuhe.liang@rcsb.org @ezra.peisach@rcsb.org @chenghua.shao@rcsb.org - could you please go through the q&a section and comment on the ones you think are outdated and can be removed, thank you.